ACTION FORCE II
---------------

LOOK OUT COBRA, ACTION FORCE ARE BACK!

In the run down slums of the city, COBRA backed terrorists are holding innocent citizens hostage. Action Force have vowed to rescue as many hostages as possile from the clutches of the evil COBRA enemy. Two of their best men have been assigned to the job.

QUICK KICK, superfit and a specialist in unarmed combat, has been given the task of penetrating the terrorist's area in order to free the hostages and rendevous with the helecopter air support.

AIRTIGHT, CBR Specialist (Chemical, Biological and Radiological Warfare) must provide covering fire for QUICK KICK'S assult. As AIRTIGHT you must use your skill and marksmanship to protect your friend as he climbs the buildings and braves the deadly COBRA tanks to reach the hostages.

QUICK KICK starts at the base of a building and climbs to the roof where the hostages are being held. Along the way he will be attacked by various COBRA terrorists. These may appear from doorways, windows or even dustbins. Watch out! All these are deadly and they will attack if they can. You must aim the telescopic sight of your Machine Gun at the terrorists and shoot them before they are able to attack. After sucessfully freeing the first set of hostages, AIRTIGHT has the option of selecting either a Machine Gun, Bazooka or Bio Gun. QUICK KICK then rushes the next level to free more hostages.

If QUICK KICK is hit he will lose one of his lives. As he climbs the building, he will gradually lose energy. By shooting the 'Stars and Stripes' fixes to the walls on some screens, you can replenish his energy. Otherwise he will lose a life when his energy falls to zero.

On every third level, QUICK KICK will have to destroy a COBRA battle tank. The player must build up and keep his rate of fire steady by alternately pressing the left and right keys/joystick control as fast as possible. If QUICK KICK does not score 39 hits on the tank before the time limit expires, the tank will have finished loading its ammunition and will return fire.

At the end of each game you will be given a rating on your performance.

FEATURES * Quick kick * Gunsight * Bazooka * Bio Gun * Machine Gun * Dustbins * Oil Barrels * Crates * Hostages * Gunmen * Baseball Thugs * Dynamite throwers * Plant pots * One ton weights * Bullet holes * Bazooka craters * Explosions * 'First Aid Box' extra lives * Torches * Blue flame explosive torches * Helicopter * Battle tank * Hostage Hut * Hostage Tower * Doorways * Opening windows * Multi levels


TO LOAD CASSETTE:

LOAD "" and press ENTER, press PLAY on tape

CONTROLs -

JOYSTICK/Sinclair, Kempston, Cursor

KEYS
Q - Up
A - Down
I - Left
O - Right
P - Fire
ENTER - Pause
L AND ENTER - Abort

WEAPON SPECIFICATIONS -
Machine gun - Auto repeat, recoils
Bazooka - No auto repeat, smashes windows, damages walls
Bio gun - No auto repeat, shoots through foreground objects

PANEL
The panels provides the following information from left to right -
1. An infra red scan of the area around the target
2. Number of lives left
3. Score
4. QUICK KICK'S energy level
5. Level number

HINTS
1. Shoot at each of the 'Stars and Stripes' flags as many times as possible to gain maximum energy.
2. By 'learning' the screen you can cover doors and windows that mercenaries emerge from.
3. Shoot Dustbins before they open fully.
4. Avoid hitting QUICK KICK at all costs!


All rights of the producer and of the owner of the work being produces are reserved. Unauthorised copying, hiring, lending, public performance and broadcasting of this cassette is prohibited. The publisher assumes no responsibility for errors, nor liability for damage arising from its use. WARNING These programmes are sold according to VIRGIN GAMES LTD'S terms of trade and conditions of sale. Copies of which are available on request. (P) 1988 VIRGIN GAMES LTD.
