===
APB
===
Document created by rstuart@ukonline.co.uk on 10th Jan 00 for
World Of Spectrum: http://www.void.demon.nl/spectrum.html

Taken from the Tangen/Domark compilation 'TNT'.

APB
---
A wacky game of cops and robbers... High speed chases, dangerous arrests
and shoot outs all in crazy cartoon action. So let's be careful out there -
Officer Bob is on the Beat!

"Straight from the coin-op... a must for all fans" New Computer Express
"Great Fun... pretty hard... keeps you coming back for more" Zero
"A must buy!" Crash
(c) 1989, 1987 Tangen Inc. All rights reserved.
TM Atari Games Corporation
Programmed by Walking Circles

The Game
--------
APB - All Points Bulletin. Put your foot on the gas and let rip as you roar
through the streets of the city in a series of hilarious and wild car chases.

Getting Started
---------------
You play the role of Officer Bob, a tough Cop in this challenging cartoon-
style game, whole job is to partol the streets of the city and apprehend
various criminals in your trusty Police Car.
Each day you are given a quota of offenders who must be apprehended before
the day is out to get a salary bonus and keep your job. These include litter
louts, drunks and hitch-hikers. At times you'll recieve an All Points
Bulletin on a particularly dangerous villain who must be tracked down and
arrested.
Should you catch Side Sniper, Freddy Freak or any of the other master
criminals, you must return them to the station for 'questoning'. If they
confess, you can forget about your quota for the rest of the day. However,
wringing a confession out of them is not easy, and you must be through before
the Chief comes in. Waggle the joystick left and right as quickly as you can
- a grid shows how fast you're going and how close the criminal is to
confessing.
To arrest an offender, you must position the Steering Wheel Cursor over
their car and switch on the siren. Continue to hold down the fire button
for as long as you need the siren. Some criminals may ignore you the first
few times you signal them to stop, depending on the severity of their crime.
As the game progresses you can obtain a gun and shoot their cars, but don't
hit any innocent bystanders. APB offenders must be rammed off the road and
will not give themselves up without a fight.
If you collide with a vehicle while the siren is off, crash too hard or
injure an innocent party, you'll get a Demerit point. You'll also get a
Demerit for every offender you do not catch on your quota. Collect too many
Demerits and you'll be fired.

Bonuses
-------
Visit the drive-in Donut shop for extra time, pick up money bags to enhance
your pay packet and stop off at Gas Stations to refuel. You can also visit
the Speed Shop and buy extra equipment for your car including radar, armour,
better brakes and faster acceleration. However, paying for a souped-up car
will be difficult if you've failed in your daily quotas and not collected
enough money.

Controls
--------
Atari ST, Amiga, Commodore 64: Use Joystick Amstrad CPC, Spectrum: Use
Joystick or define keys.
Left:                  Steer Left
Right:                 Steer Right
Up:                    Accelerate
Down:                  Brake
Fire pressed quickly:  Shoot gun (if present)
Fire held down:        Switch on Siren

Loading Instructions
--------------------
Disk:
Atari ST and Amiga: Insert Disk and swich on machine.
Commodore 64 Disk: Type LOAD "*",8,1
Amstrad CPC Disk: Type RUN "DISK
Spectrum +3 Disk: Use Loader option.

Cassette:
Commodore 64 Cassette: Press SHIFT and RUN/STOP and start tape.
Amstrad CPC Cassette: Press CTRL and small ENTER key and start tape.
Spectrum 48K Cassette: Type LOAD"" and start tape.
Spectrum 128K/+2+3 Cassette: Select Loader option.

Hints
-----
Try to make a map of the city as soon as possible as it will help you get
back to the police station when you've got all the criminals. Be daring, use
both sides of the road to speed up your chase of the criminals, but watch
out for any on-coming traffic.
Keep an eye out for the Donut shop as these are some of the many bonuses that
can be found around the city, but be careful as you approach an A.P.B. for
the first time as they may throw a stick of Dynamite at you!
On some highways are sets of roadworks, which have detour signals around
them. You can only jump the ditch if you are going at high speed, otherwise
you will crash, in addition be careful not to shoot innocent bystanders,
or run over pedestrians as you will get 'Demerit Points'.
In fields beside the road you will find Donuts and money bags. The Donuts
will give you extra time, but if you go over more than one in quick
succession you will only get one lot of time. The money bags can give you a
variety of bonuses from extra money to 'Demerit Erased' and 'Quota Met'.
However, occasionally the money bags are booby-trapped by unscrupulous
criminals, but the only way you can find out which is to pick one up...
