BACK TO SKOOL

Having managed to steal your report during the last few skooldaze of
term, you've spent the whole holiday forging teachers' signatures and
handwriting to make yourself look like the brightest, sweetest
natured, most helpful little soul ever to carry a satchel.

Now all you've got to do is get it back into the Head's safe...

A couple of years ago, your elder brother had exactly the same problem
and has lent you his old copy of the School Rules, on which he's
scribbled some notes in invisible ink. Holding the paper over a
bonfire made from the swot's cap, you can just make out the following:

* Key to safe round nek of gurls hedmistris. She hates frogs.
* Put frog in cup in gurls kitchin so you can nock it down onto her hed.
* Remmember the bike.
* Frogs ar kept in laked siense lab star room. Combernasion letters held
  by masters - get them drunk
* Sherry in hedmistris's cubord - only unloked wen sheez shure all the
  boys ar back in skoal.
* Fill water pistle by jumping up to botel. Put sherry in skoal cups and
  use catapult to nock cups onto masters.
* Stink boms - Hed will open window if you drop one wen heez near.
* Cairtaker - if you nock him out with a conker by firing catapult from
  top window of skoal, yool be able to get passed him.
* Bike - chaned to conker tree - 4 number combernasion has to be ritten
  on blackbord to relees it. Each master nose 1 number - sake them
  with water by nocking water-filled cups with catapult wilst they
  ar under.
* Water pistle and stink boms - hidden in desks. Remmember there ar
  desks in the gurls skoal too.
* Water makes flours grow.
* Catching mice is fun. Letting them go in the gurls skoal is even
  funier.
* If you get lots of lines to do, try being ekstra nice to your
  gurlfrend!
* Only the Hed can open the study dare - yool have to jump up to reech
  the safe.

Microsphere Computer Services Ltd. 72, Rosebery Road, London N10 2LA.

KEYS AND JOYSTICKS

Q -up
A -down
O -left
P - right
Press Q, A, O, P + CAPS shift to move faster.
F - fire catapult (or press 'FIRE' button on joystick)
C - catch mouse/frog
D/U - drop stink bomb (if you have any)
G - shoot water pistol
H - hit
J/L - jump/leap
M - mount bicycle
R - release mouse (only works in girls school)
S - sit/stand
T - throw away water pistol
W - write

To pedal bike, use the O & P keys, or waggle the joystick. Q (up) lets
you stand on the saddle; A (down) lets you get off the bike. You can
jump up whilst standing on the saddle.

Press 'O' when sitting at a desk to open it and find out what, if
anything, is inside.

'W' lets you start writing on the blackboard.
When you finish, press ENTER.

The program is set up to use the keyboard and suggested names for the
characters have been included. You are given the opportunity to select
one of several types of joystick, and to alter the names immediately
after the game has loaded. If you want to make changes, you should
press any letter key whilst the 10 second countdown is going on.

LOADING THE PROGRAM
To load 'Back to Skool':

1. Important. Unplug your computer and reconnect it, to clear it
   completely.
2. Set the volume control on your cassette recorder to somewhere near
   the middle. Rewind the cassette to the beginning of the tape.
3. Connect the EAR socket of the cassette recorder to the EAR socket
   of the Spectrum. Make sure that there is nothing in the MIC socket
   of the recorder.
4. Type in LOAD "".
5. Press ENTER and start your cassette recorder playing.

If the tape fails to load, try again with different volume levels. The
program is recorded on both sides of the tape, so if one side fails to
load you should try the other side. The program is recorded in two
slightly different ways to allow for the full range of cassette
players.

If it still fails to load, return it to the shop it was bought from in
the first instance. If this is not possible, send it back to
MICROSPHERE at the above address, with proof of purchase and stating
when and where it was bought, for a replacement. Replacements will
only be given to the original purchaser upon satisfactory proof of
purchase.

This program and documentation, its content game principles and
graphical presentation are copyright Microsphere Computer Services
Ltd. They may not be reproduced, in part or in whole by any means or
in any form without the express permission of the copyright holder.
Penalties for infringement of copyright are high. This program is sold
subject to the condition that it will not be lent or hired out.
