BATTLE COMMAND 
Spectrum 128k, Amstrad CPC Disk

INTRODUCTION
Set in a near future alternate reality, Battle Command is an arcade/strategy game which allows 
you to command a single Mauler assault tank in one of a series of scenarios (Missions) in the 
Ultra War, fought between the two dominant races in the New World.

The latest phase of the North/South war has been going on for over 10 years, with a World War 1 
situation eventually developing - a standoff between armies massed over a long duo-in battle 
front.

Such are the defensive capabilities of each side, full scale attacks are suicidal, so any offensive 
moves are, by necessity, small "behind the lines" actions performed by elite troops in specially 
designed vehicles.

The Mauler is the latest such machine - an Armoured Fighting Machine capable of being lifted in 
and out of hostile territory by a fast Stealth Chopper (the Helicarrier) and armed with the most 
advanced weaponry science can devise.

Try reading through the Your First Mission section to get the hang of how to play Battle 
Command. Above all, remember that you're fighting behind enemy lines on your own, with only 
quick thinking and several millions of Credits worth of military hardware to protect you.

LOADING
Amstrad Disk
Place the disk in the drive with the side labelled 'BOOT DISK' facing up. Type RWDISK and press 
return. When the game asks for the "MISSION DISK" please turn the "BOOT DISK" over.

Spectrum Tape +2/+3
Place the tape fully rewound with side 1 facing upwards in the cassette deck. Press RETURM on 
the computer, and when prompted press PLAY on the cassette deck. When the game asks for 
the "MISSION TAPE" please turn the cassette over and rewind it to the start of side 2. Click on 
the 'START GAME' icon and set the tape running. The clock cursor will become a pointer when 
the mission directory has been loaded. The relevant mission can no be located on the tape by 
clicking on the 'SEARCH' icon whilst in mission selection. When a mission has been located its 
relevant indicator will flash on the mission menu. To load that mission, click on the'SELECT' icon.

Save Game Option
To save your current mission(s) select STATUS and then select SAVE option. You will then be 
given a code (write this code down). After the game has been saved the game may then be 
continued. To load a previously saved game select LOAD at the start of the game and then type 
in your code, then press ENTER/RETURN and then select START.

PLAYING THE MISSIONS
In order to get the best out of this game it is suggested that you read the following sections of the 
enclosed manual for the ST/Amiga/PC

Page              	Section Title 
5		The World 
5		Playing Battle Command 
7-18		The Mauler 
24-30             	Your First Mission.


and then refer to the differences as indicated below. However, if you wish to take the plunge 
immediately, read the following section to familiarize yourself with the controls, or alternatively 
use the quick reference card as you play the first mission.

Spectrum/Amstrad Control Guide 
The cursor can be moved with the joystick or with the keys Q (up), A (down), 0 (left), P (right) and 
Space as the fire/select button.

The tank is controlled by the same system using UP for acceleration, DOWN for deceleration, 
and LEFT and RIGHT steering the tank in the appropriate direction.

Pressing the keys 1, 2, 3 or 4 will activate the appropriate weapon slot. The active weapon slot 
will then be highlighted in the upper console display. The different weapon types are controlled as 
follows:-

Pulveriser:      		Press fire to launch a single shell. Cannon:

Skeet Bomb:    	Press fire to launch a single skeet.

Cluster         		Press fire to launch a cluster bomb. 
Bomb:

Surface to       		First sight your target, then press fire to obtain 
Surface         		lock on. The cursor will flash to indicate this. 
Missiles:        		Pressing fire again will now launch the missile.

Dragonfly:      		Use fire to launch. When the missile has been 
			launched, its main display will show a view from
			just behind the Dragonfly. This missile is 
			controlled using the same method as the tank. 
			Pressing fire a second time will result in control 
			switching back to the Mauler.

The following weapons are controlled using two extra keys. These are referred to as the upper 
and lower module buttons and are activated by the keys J and K respectively.

Surface to 		First sight your target, using the tank left and
Air Missiles  		right controls and the upper and lower module 
			buttons to adjust the elevation of the sight. 
			Then press fire to obtain lock on.
			The cursor will flash to indicate this. Pressing 
			fire again will now launch the missile.

Mortar:         		Use upper module button to increase the 
			elevation angle and the lower module button
 			to decrease the angle. Press fire to launch 
			a mortar shell.

Sleeper         		Use the module buttons to adjust the time delay, 
Mine:           		pressing fire drops the mine.

Spectre         		Press fire to launch a single flare or use the 
Flares:         		module buttons to switch automatic mode off or
			on.

Phantom        		Press fire to launch a burst of chaff or use the 
Chaff:          		module buttons to switch automatic mode off or
			on.

SLAM Laser:    	Use the module buttons to switch this weapon 
			on or off. It only operates in automatic mode.

The other equipment is operated as follows: 
	
Nightsight:      		Pressing N toggles this view mode on or off.

Binoculars:      		Pressing B toggles this view mode on or off. 
			Press Z for zoom mode. this alters the 
			magnification level.

Rear View:      		Pressing R toggles this view mode on or off.

Helicarrier:      		Pressing H toggles the Helicarrier request 
			transmission on or off.

The various game screens are accessed by the following methods:

Review          		Pressing M will enter this screen. Key B displays 
Briefing:        		the briefing text and pressing M again returns to
			the map screen.
			On the map display a flashing cursor indicates 
			the Mauler's current position. The letter P marks 
			the helicarrier pickup point and a letter T shows 
			the main target.

Damage        		Pressing D enters this screen. The various levels 
Screen:        		of damage to the Mauler and equipment are
			displayed.

The main console view is returned to by pressing key C. Please refer to the keyboard refRrenc'e 
chart for this information.
     
Pause          		Pressing E enters pause mode. Play is 
Screen:         		suspended until the player either quits the
			current mission or continues by choosing key Y
			or N respectively.

BATTLE COMMAND
Its program code. graphic representation and artwork are the copyright of Ocean Software 
Limited and may not be reproduced. stored, hired or broadcast in any form whatsoever without 
the written permission of Ocean Software Limited, All rights reserved worldwide.

THIS SOFTWARE PRODUCT HAS BEEN CAREFULLY DEVELOPED AMD MANUFACTURED 
TO THE HIGHEST QUALITY STANDARDS. PLEASE READ THE INSTRUCTIONS FOR 
LOADING. CAREFULLY.

If for any reason you have difficulty in running the program you may contact our Ocean Helpline 
direct by telephoning 0626 332533. However if you believe that the product is defective please 
return it direct to: Mr. Yates. Ocean Software Limited, 6 Central Street, Manchester, M2 5MS. Our 
quality control department will test the product and supply a replacement if we find a fault. If we 
cannot find a fault the product will be returned to you at no extra charge. Please note that this 
does not affect your statutory rights.

CREDITS
Amstrad and Spectrum programmed by Stephen Hey. 
Music by Jonathan Dunn 
Produced by D.C. Ward 
©1991 Ocean Software Ltd.

