BEAR BOVVER
-----------

by J. RITMAN

Bear Bovver features the most amazing multicoloured cartoon-quality graphics
with animation and explosive effects as you've never seen before plua those
bad, bad bovver bears along with a special mysterious guest.

ZX Spectrum 48K

Wasn't Ted pleased when his brand new Sinclair electric truck arrived! He had
already bought a set of batteries, so no sooner had the delivery man left,
than a very proud Ted climbed in for his first drive.

All was going well until Ted notices his truck slowing down. "Oh dear,"
thinks Ted, "these batteries don't seem to last very long.

Ted takes a look around - he has ended up parked outside a building being
rennovated.

Suddenly he notices something glint in the sunshine at the top of the
scaffolding. "Is that really a battery up there?".

Jumping out of his car he climbs the nearest ladder.

Thirsty work this, thinks Ted as he climbs the next ladder. But then, Ted
realises he has more to worry about than a dry throat...!

General Loading and Running Instructions

1. Set up your Spectrum as described in the 'Introduction to Basic' manual
   provided with the computer.

2. Insert the cassette in your tape recorder. Ensure it is fully rewound.

3. Connect the EAR socket at the rear of your Spectrum to the EAR, EX.SP. or
   LOUDSPEAKER socket on your recorder.

4. Adjust the volume on your recorder to approximately 3/4 of maximum and set
   the tone control to maximum (i.e. maximum treble, minimum bass).

5. Type in LOAD"". LOAD is obtained by depressing the J key once. "" is
   obtained by depressing the P key twice WHILST HOLDING DOWN THE SYMBOL
   SHIFT KEY.

6. Now press ENTER and press PLAY on your recorder.

The program will run automatically on successfully loading in.

At anytime before the game starts you can select Baby Bear Mode by pressing
the I key. Use Baby Bear Mode to practise moving Ted around the screen
without worrying about being bovvered.

Game Controls

Can you help Ted climb up the scaffolding and collect the batteries for his
electric car before the bovver bears capture him!

All Ted has to help him is the small number of time bombs he has found
scattered around the building site.

To help you, use the following controls:

ENTER,P,7 = Move Ted to the RIGHT
L,O,6 = Move Ted to the LEFT
Q,W,E,R,T,9 = Move Ted UP
A,S,D,F,G,S = Move Ted DOWN
Bottom Row, 0 =DROP TIME BOMBS

Other game controls are included in the program. You can also use the
Sinclair, Kempston and Fuller joysticks.

The scoring system is unbearably complex - try to work it out as you go
along!

Good Luck!!

(C) 1983 Artic Computing Ltd.

Written by Jon Ritman
with thanks to Guy Stevens

For a full colour catalogue detailing the complete range of Artic software
please send an SAE (6" X 9") to:-
ARTIC COMPUTING LTD., MAIN STREET, BRANDESBURTON, DRIFFIELD YO25 8RL.

(Transcribed by Robin Stuart)
