CJ in the USA
Code Masters


Somewhere in the deepest, darkest reaches of the African Jungle,
CJ the elephant is playing. Suddenly there is an explosion, CJ
turns around and sees a plume of smoke rising from his family
home. He races back as fast as he can but finds his mother,
brothers and sisters gone ... KIDNAPPED and taken to America.
Barely holding back his tears, he vows to rescue his family and
bring the evil hunter to justice!


Controls

Press Caps Shift and 1 to Quit.
Press Caps Shift and 2 to Pause.

Joystick

Up	Q	Jump
Down	A	Drop Bomb
Left	O	Move left
Right	P	Move right
Fire	Space	Fire peanut

The Object of the game

CJ's family have been kidnapped and taken to the USA. His brothers and
sisters have all managed to escape, but they are all trapped in various
states. CJ must find each of member of his family, then travel to the
next state. His mother is being held in [?] by the Hunter, so CJ must first
remove him before she can be free. CJ must reach the end of each level
where a large foe will challenge him. He can jump using his UMBRELLA to
break his fall.

He can fire PEANUTS through his trunk or throw BOMBS. By eating the
HAMBURGERS and HOT DOGS he can replenish his energy. INVINCIBILITY
PILLS will make him immune for a while.

Level 1 New York Harbour to Central Station.
Avoid Pit Bull Terriers, Rats, Renegade  Cops, Alligators and
Alligators [sic]. Stay clear of the STREET GANGS.

Level 2 Chicago to Black Hills of Dakota.
The wild west including Rats, Rattlesnakes, Cowboys and Red Indians.
Watch out for the BIG FOOT!

Level 3. San-Francisco to Los Angeles.
Keep a West Coast eye out for American footballers. A huge basketball
player guards the end of this level.

Level 4. Cape Canaveral to Disneyland.
CJ's mother is hostage here, watch out for the hunter!


Credits:
Game Design         Big Red Software
Coding              Fred Williams
Music               Allister Brimble
Graphics            Peter Ranson
Project Director    Paul Ranson
Production          Stew Regan
Artwork             Shan Savage
