Cobra - Stallone
from OCEAN

            Crime is a disease. He's the cure.

The Cobra strikes!
""""""""""""""""""
As vigilante cop, Marion Cobretti of the 'Zombie Squad', you must
rescue top fashion model Ingrid Knutsen from an army of psychotic
killers and the evil clutches of 'The Night Slasher'.

The Game
""""""""
Thsi is where the law stops ... and you start

Advance through three playfields.
CITY SCENE (night-time), RURAL AREA (day-time) and FACTORY. Use
platforms and levels to locate and protect Ingrid from her attackers
in each stage.
Use 'HEAD-BUTT' feature to defend yourself and collect limited weapons
hidden inside BEEF BURGERS to thwart the attack, beware - each weapon
only lasts a short while!

Weapons are: INVINCIBLILITY PILL
             KNIFE
             PISTOL
             LASER SIGHTED MACHINE GUN
To move to the next section ou must:
  1. Collect 'all four' beef burger weapons.
  2. Rescue Ingrid (she will follow you if you touch her).
  3. Clear the section of killers.

Be careful, Ingrid gets upset, if you try to kill her she may wander
away. She may also get abducted by the enemy.

Once the factory has been cleared you will have to confront
The Night Slasher himself.

            Crime is the disease ... You're the cure!

Controls
""""""""
The program is controlled by either joystick or keyboard which is
redefinable. Most types of interface are compatable and on screen
instructions indicate correct procedure.

Note
""""
If using a Sinclair Plus 2 computer, select the joystick option,
"Sinclair" when using an Amstrad or Cheetah + joystick.

You unleash the Cobra as follows using a combination of
                UP, DOWN, LEFT and RIGHT.

Joystick
                         Jump
        Jump Left                    Jump Right
                         \ | /
             Left        -   -       Right
                         / | \
        Duck Left                    Duck Right
                         Duck

Press the FIRE button to use the current weapon type.

Status and scoring
""""""""""""""""""
On screen information show cureent score and lives remaining (boxing
gloves) at the bottom left of the screen.

Any weapons you may be carrying are graphically displayed at the
bottom right of the screen.

When using a weapon the 'QUACKOMETER' is displayed in the lower
central part of the screen. This realistically indicates the time
remaining before losing that weapon.

You begin your mission with 3 lives and gain bonus lives at 10,000
points and every 20,000 points thereafter.

Hints and Tips
""""""""""""""
- Avoid hurting Ingrid, she runs away.
- Duck down to avoid flying objects.
- Remember the location of each beefburger and the weapon type it
  contains.
- Save 'the best' weapon till last as the action heats up towards
  the end.
- Don't stay in an one place too long!
