****************CODENAME MAT by DEREK 
BREWSTER**********************************************


Codename MAT - MISSION: ALIEN TERMINATION - the desparate plan to place in 
the mind of a teenager the combined tactical skills of all the planetary 
leaders in the solar system. MAT is mankinds last hope.
For decades the Myons have sought to dominate the Solar System, whose fleets 
are now ragged and depleted. They have launched an all-or-nothing attack, 
knowing that Earth is developing revolutionary space-craft. Only the 
prototype- USS Centurion - has been built, and it must be pressed into 
immediate service as both battle-cruiser and tactical command centre.
Piloting the craft in battle and controlling the Planetary Defence Fleets is 
beyond any normal human...MAT is created.
Now your mind is MAT's mind. Take control of the Centurion and blast off on 
the greatest adventure of them all...

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


To load, press 'J' key and holding down red symbol shift, press 'P' key 
twice. Screen should show LOAD"". Press ENTER key and start tape - let tape 
run to end.

DIRECTION AND FIRE					IMPULSE ENGINES:
6. Left							1. Decelarate.
7. Right						2. Accelarate.
8. Down or JOYSTICK SELECTED				3. Decelarate to a halt.
9. Up							4. Go to cruising speed (30%)
0. Fire							5. Go to full speed (NOT
							   AVAILABLE WITH
							   AGF/PROTEK JOYSTICK).
OTHER CONTROLS:
W Warp 							DISPLAY CONTROLS
D Defensive Shields (on/off)				F Front View
K Tracking Computer (on/off)				R Rear View
A Switch Tracker to alternative enemy, if any.		L Long Range scan
T Transmit subspace commands to your own forces		S Sector Scan
H Hold/restart program					C Solar chart and ship status.


GETTING STARTED
Select control option as requested on loading (1-6).
Select game level (1-3)
1. Short practice game
2. Full game, medium sized Myon invasion fleet.
3. Full game, large fast-moving Myon invasion fleet.
Select game type (1-2)
1. Commander: you control deployment of Planetary Defence Fleets.
2. Pilot: deployment of fleets under computer control.
The forward cockpit view will appear. You are stationary in the outermost 
plantet's system. Press D to activate shields. Press 4 to come to cruising 
speed of 30%. Pressing R will give the rear view. Pressing K activates the 
visual tracking computer which selects forward/rear views to face any object 
being tracked. Pressing S puts up the sector scan, showing your loacation in 
the planets system, and that of all the other fleets, satellites, etc. 
Pressing C puts up the solar chart, showing all planet sectors in less 
detail, allied fleets' strengths and Centurion's system status. The 
bottom-screen Battle information about planets under attack, damage reports 
are made, and alerts are given of Myons in your area. Pressing L puts up the 
long-range scan, giving a scale display of all objects in your area in 
relation to you. To move to another area in the planet's sector you must use 
the Warp Drive. To move to another planet's sector you must warp into an 
area containing a Stargate, find it and fly through it (red one for system 
outbound, cyan inbound). If 'Commander' was selected you can transmit 
commands to your conventional fleets by pressing 'T'.

All displays and functions are described in detail further on.

Each area may contain any combination of three types of Myon ship.

	Fighter - will attack Centurion the moment the two are in the same area. 
Top speed         70%. No shields.
	Cruiser - Will only attack when within range 3000, otherwise follows a 
steady         course. Top speed 60%. No shields.
	Base Star - Will attack immediately. Top speed 80%. When it's shields are 
gone it         turns red and runs until they have regenerated (about 2 
mins.)

A planet or satellite is under attack when four of the adjacent eight areas 
are occupied by Myon craft. You have about 3 minutes to clear one of these 
areas before the Myons have destroyed their target. They construct two 
fighters and a base star from a planet, or two fighters and a cruiser from a 
satellite. It is sometimes best to destroy a planet yourself to prevent 
this. Myons delay to attack planets, rather than carry on through Stargates 
to get towards Earth, except when they are losing really heavily.
Damage suffered by Centurion in battle can be repaired, and energy restored, 
by reaching a planet or satellite. Orbit is achieved by stopping between 
ranges 400 and 500 with vertical and horizontal less than 5 degs. Centurion 
will be drawn down and destroyed if you get too close. Do not forget to 
reactivate shields, etc., and turn away before getting underway again!
Damaged impulse engines will operate raggedly if you hold the relevant 
control key down. All other systems cease to function when destroyed. Loss 
of several systems can seriously affect your ability to navigate. Warp drive 
is not vulnerable to damage.
If Centurion runs out of energy, or it or Earth is destroyed then the war is 
lost. The destruction of the last Myon craft signals victory. You will be 
scored according to the time, planets or satellites saved, level of play and 
efficiency of tactics.

DISPLAY TYPES:
Permanently on-screen
		Angle from straight
Energy	      ahead of tracked object		Object Range		Shield Status
E=08721		     0 = +46			  R = 15721		   SH - ON
V=030		     0 = -17			  N = 2			   TR - OFF
Speed		Angle up/down to		Object Number		Tracking Computer
		 tracked object						     Status

Long-range scan
3-Dimensional global representation of your area of space. Each area behaves 
as a circular universe. A craft disappearing behind will reappear ahead, for 
instance. You look down from above. Centurion is represented by the fixed 
central blot, it's nose towards the top of the screen. Thus, if you turn to 
the left the entire display will appear to revolve to the right around your 
position. If you loop the loop the display will rotate vertically as if you 
were looking down a revolving cylinder. It is worth playing with this until 
interpreting it is second nature - it will need to be!

Sector Scan
Shows a 10 x 7 grid, each part of which represents one area as above.
(Large Black Circle) - Main Planet in system
(Smaller Black Circle) - Satellite
F 1(with dots underneath) - Planetary defence fleet (dots show ships left in 
fleet)
(Four dots in diamond shape) - Stargate (RED - outer-system/CYAN - 
inner-system directions)
-=  - Fleet of 3 Myons
_-  - Fleet of 2 Myons
-   - 1 Myon
[ ] - USS Centurion
+   - Warp Cursor

Solar Chart
The solar chart is made up of all seven sector displays miniaturised and 
rotated anticlockwise 90-degrees.
-  Myon Fleet
+  USS Centurion
x  Planetary Defence Fleet
(Square) - Planet
(Small Black Square) - Satellite
Fleet's strengths are shown below thus:
	Earth	Mars	Jupiter	    Saturn	Uranus	   Neptune	Pluto
F1	  3	 3	   3	      3		  0	      0		  0
F2	  3	 3	   3	      2		  1	      0		  0
Centurion's systems status is shon below thus:
PH1	  PH2	 SHE	   IME	      BCO	  SRE	      STR	  LRS
   Photon	Shields	  Impulse    Battle	Subspace    Subspace	Long Range
    Tubes		  Engines   Computer    Receiver   Transmitter    Scanner
			(Flashing = DAMAGED; Red = DESTROYED)

WARP DRIVE
To warp into another area select Sector Scan with S. Use the direction 
controls to position the warp cursor at your destination. Press W to engage 
Warp Drive. The display will return to forward view, with the diamond of the 
Warp Channel Marker in your sights. As you race through the warp channel you 
must follow it by keeping the marker in your sights, as if chaing another 
craft. Otherwise you will go off course. You can set and leave the warp 
cursor position and use Warp Drive later.

STARGATES
To reach another planet's sector you must pass through a Stargate. A cyan 
one will take you inwards in the system and a red one outwards. You first 
warp into the Stargate area, then track it down with your displays or battle 
computer. It is visible at about range 2500. You must fly through the centre 
to achieve transfer. The faster you are travelling, the more accurate you 
must be. You will arrive in the next planet's system in the area of the 
other end of the Stargate. If both you and a Myon are present at a Stargate 
you cannot use it until the Myon is destroyed.

SUBSPACE TRANSMITTER
In 'Commander' mode you need to issue instructions to the Planetary Defence 
Fleets to use them in your strategy. To do this press T. You will be 
prompted for the name of the fleet you wish to transmit to. Respond with the 
letter of the planet to which it belongs, followed by the fleet's number, 
and press RETURN. S2 would be Saturn fleet no. 2; U1 would be Uranus fleet 
no. 1 etc. Then enter message and press RETURN. A message comprises the 
first letter of the direction to move and the distance, repeated as needed 
followed by any suffix desired. Suffix R will cause it to remain at its new 
position. Suffix D will cause it to Defend the perimeter of the destination 
area. A message E2N5R means 'Go East 2, North 5, and Remain there'.
W5D means 'Go and Defend the perimeter of the area 5 to the West'. Each 
fleet rmembers its previous R or D command and will apply it to any new 
instructions if neither suffix is present. A fleet cannot travel through a 
planet or satellite area. It can be useful to just transmit R first to make 
a fleet stay still while you are composing its message. If a fleet runs into 
Myons on it's journey it will normally enter combat en route - if used, this 
suffix should be the very last item in the message. The Sector Scan is 
correctly oriented North-upwards for the directions used in issuing 
commands.

TRACKING COMPUTER
K switches this on or off. It will automatically switch between forward and 
rear views to face any object being tracked. You always fire in the 
direction of view. The object being tracked is indicated by the 'N= 
'readout. 'P' indicates a planet or satellite, 'S' a Stargate, '0' no 
objects present, '1','2' or '3' which number Myon of those present is being 
tracked. You may switch between attackers by pressing A. The Battle 
Computer's readouts of range and angle are for the item being tracked. When 
first entering a Myon-occupied area it is wise to switch between attackers 
to determine which is the closest or you may be taken by surprise.

GENERAL INFORMATION
In battle knock out fighters first, trying to stick with the one you are 
tracking, otherwise you may get one in your sights just as the tracker 
switches view to follow another. Chasing cruisers can be time-consuming. It 
is sometimes best to leave them for later unless they are a threat to a 
planet. Space always has lumps of rock floating through it. You cannot track 
these, but they can cause damage, so keep your eyes peeled! It is unwise to 
continue battle when either the Battle Computer or Long Range Scanner is 
damaged. Either can be used effectively for finding planets or Myons, but 
loss of both will leave only the fore-aft switching of the tracking Computer 
to indicate an object's location.
Keep an eye on energy. Shields, Warp Drive, Impulse Engines and Photon Tubes 
use varying amounts. Hits by Myon photon bolts cause the most serious drain. 
The display will flash below 1000 units.



		This program is protected by copyright. Unauthorised
		      copying, lending or hiring is prohibited.
		 Micromega, 230-236 Lavender Hill, London SW11 1LE



