Combat School

From original full-price release by Ocean.


SPECTRUM * COMMODORE * AMSTRAD

COMBAT
SCHOOL

KONAMI OCEAN



                                GRYZOR DEMO

AMSTRAD
Following Combat School on side B of the tape there is a short
playable demonstration of the Konami coin-op hit Gryzor. To load,
follow the loading instructions as normal -the demonstration can be
played with joystick only.

DISK
To load the demo type RUN"DEMO and press return.


SPECTRUM
Following the 128K version of Combat School on side B of this tape
there is a short playable demonstration of the Konami coin-op hit
Gryzor. To load, follow the loading instructions as normal - the
demonstration can be played with joystick or keyboard.

DISK
To load the demo select 128K basic on the menu screen and type
LOAD "DEMO" and press return.


COMMODORE
Following Combat School on side B of the tape there is a short
demonstration of the Konami coin-op hit Gryzor. To load, follow the
loading instructions as normal - the demonstration can be played
with joystick only.

DISK (side B)
To load the demo type LOAD "*",8,1 and press return.



COMBAT SCHOOL

Chin-up! Chest out!

You have enlisted with the elite marine corps -the U.S.A.'s finest. A
barrage of tough, gruelling, physically demanding events face you if
you are to become a crack trooper. Your objective is to graduate, but
your mettle will be severely tested as the toughest course of training
events are presented to you.

It may not end there! If you do graduate, there's a good chance you
will be sent on a crucial mission - one that will examine your physical
capabilities to the full!

To graduate is your ambition, but will you even survive?


AMSTRAD

LOADING

CPC 464
Place the rewound cassette in the cassette deck type RUN" and then
press ENTER key. Follow the instructions as they appear on screen. If
there is a disk drive attached then type |TAPE then press ENTER key.
Then type RUN" and press ENTER key.
(The | symbol is obtained by holding shift and pressing the @ key).

CPC 664 and 6128
Connect a suitable cassette tape recorder ensuring that the correct
leads are attached as defined in the User Instruction Booklet. Place
the rewound tape in the cassette recorder and type |Tape then press
ENTER key. Then type RUN" and press ENTER key follow the
instructions as they appear on screen.

NOTE:
On a 464 or 664 computer, the program loads each new section off
tape. On a 6128 or 464/664 with memory expansion the program
loads all of the sections in at once.

DISK
Insert the program disk into the drive with the A side facing upwards.
Type |DISC and press ENTER to make sure the machine can access
the disk drive. Now type RUN" DISC and press ENTER the game will
now load automatically.


CONTROLS
The game is controlled by joystick, compatible for one or two players
or keyboard.

KEYBOARD		     JOYSTICK

Q	- Up			UP
A	- Down			|
O	- Left		LEFT ------- RIGHT
P	- Right			|
SPACE	- Fire			DOWN


NOTE:
To "waggle" in the following events the keys Q, W, O and P can be
used to build up your speed - obstacle course, arm wrestling and
chin-ups. For building up on iron man race you can use Q and W only
for waggling - O and P are to be used to move left and right.


SPECTRUM

LOADING
1.	Place the cassette in your recorder ensuring that it is fully
rewound.
2.	Ensure that the MIC socket is disconnected and that the volume
and tone controls are set to the appropriate levels.
3.	If the computer is a Spectrum 48K or Spectrum + then load as
follows. Type LOAD"" (ENTER). (Note there is no space between the
two quotes). The " is obtained by pressing the SYMBOL SHIFT and P
keys simultaneously.
4.	Press PLAY on your recorder and the game will load
automatically. If you have any problems try adjusting the volume
and tone controls and consulting Chapter 6 of the Spectrum manual.
5.	If the computer is a Spectrum 128K then follow the loading
instructions on-screen or in the accompanying manual.

SPECTRUM 48K
The labelled side of the tape contains a 48K version. This game loads
in a number of parts. Once the 1st part has loaded, stop/pause the
tape player. When you have completed all of the levels in that
particular load, a message will appear requesting you to start the
tape again. When this part has loaded continue as above.

NOTE
Once you have loaded any level after the 1st load and subsequently
lost your lives, to start again from the beginning, rewind the tape and
begin as above.

SPECTRUM 128K
The unlabelled side of the tape contains a 128K version. The
complete game will load as a single loader.

SPECTRUM +3 DISC
Set up system and switch on as described in your instruction
manual. Insert disk and press ENTER to choose 'LOADER' option.
After a short delay a game selection screen will appear.

CONTROLS
The game may be controlled by Joystick (Kempston Sinclair or
Cursor), or keyboard which is fully redefinable.

JOYSTICK

	UP
	|
LEFT ------- RIGHT
	|
	DOWN


COMMODORE

LOADING
Position the cassette in your Commodore recorder with the printed
side upwards and make sure that it is rewound to the beginning.
Ensure that all the leads are connected. Press the SHIFT key and the
RUN/STOP key simultaneously. Follow the screen instruction -
PRESS PLAY ON TAPE. This program will then load automatically.
For C128 loading type GO 64 (RETURN), then follow C64 instruction.

DISK
Select 64 mode. Turn on the disk drive insert the program into the
drive with the label facing upwards type LOAD "*",8,1 (RETURN) the
introductory screen will appear Press FIRE and the program will
then load automatically.

CONTROLS
The game is controlled by joystick only, player one - port 1, player
two-port 2.

NOTE:
To start the game if FIRE button on joystick in port 1 is pressed then
this will select one player game, if FIRE button on joystick in port 2 is
pressed this will select two player game.

JOYSTICK

	UP
	|
LEFT ------- RIGHT
	|
	DOWN


CONTROL FOR DIFFERENT EVENT

ASSAULT COURSE
Waggle left and right to build-up and maintain speed. Press FIRE to
jump over walls and onto horizontal ladder: continue waggling.

FIRING RANGE ONE
Use up, down, left, right to control your cursor and FIRE to fire your
weapon.

IRON MAN RACE
Waggle joystick up and down to build-up and maintain speed, move
joystick left and right to move left and right. Press FIRE to jump over
any obstacles.

FIRING RANGE TWO
Move left and right to move your man in the appropriate direction
and press FIRE to fire your weapon.

ARM WRESTLING
Waggle left and right to build-up and maintain maximum power.

NOTE:
AMSTRAD ONLY. In two player mode, if no joysticks are being used,
then player one is to use O and P and player 2 is to use Z and X to
control their men in this event.

FIRING RANGE THREE
Move left and right to move your cursor in the appropriate direction
and press FIRE to fire your weapon.

WITHOUT FIRE PRESSED                            WITH FIRE PRESSED

KICK UP						        JUMP
       \					 PUNCH  |
WALK----|----WALK				 UP    \|
LEFT   /|\   RIGHT				        |
      / | \					       /|
  MID   |   KICK				      / |
  KICK  |					 PUNCH  |
        DUCK					 DOWN   |
						        JUMP KICK


COMBAT WITH INSTRUCTOR
Left and right as normal, up to jump and FIRE to punch/kick.

CHIN-UPS
Waggle left and right.


THE MISSION

       JUMP
        |
WALK----|----WALK
LEFT         RIGHT

FIRE - KICK


GAME PLAY

There are seven taxing events which will call upon every skill you can
muster. To be the supreme fighting machine and graduate from the
Combat School you must ensure that all events are completed in the
specified time.

ASSAULT COURSE
The first gruelling test guaranteed to tax your muscles to the full! By
waggling the joystick, you must build-up and maintain your running
speed whilst jumping over the numerous fences. Towards the end of
this event you will be confronted with a horizontal ladder; jump onto
this ladder and waggle as fast as possible to complete this course.
You are against the clock and thus have a limited time to complete,
however, if you manage a good time you will be awarded with a
bonus. This time bonus will be added on to the time allowed for the
next event.

FIRING RANGE ONE
Various targets appear at random throughout this event and you
must move your cursor and shoot as many as possible within the
allotted time. You have a minimum number of targets to hit and
again, if you exceed this quota you may be allotted a time bonus as
above.

IRON MAN RACE
Possible one of the most gruelling events that Combat School has to
offer. You must build-up and maintain your maximum running speed
whilst avoiding the various obstacles such as rocks and mines as you
try and negotiate this hazardous terrain. Jumping is permitted, but
be careful you don't land on anything that could make you trip and
lose valuable time. Having negotiated the land, you will then be
confronted with a fast moving river which you must swim across,
find a canoe and paddle like crazy to the opposite bank whilst
avoiding the treacherous logs which float across your path. Upon
reaching the opposite bank you must sprint to the finishing line
before the time is up. As before, a time bonus is invoked if you
complete the course ahead of schedule.

FIRING RANGE TWO
In contrast to the fixed gun emplacements you had in the first firing
range, this event presents you with a chance to practice your skills
with a hand-held machine gun. Robot tanks will descend at random
from the top of the screen and you must knock-out as many as
possible in the alloted time. As before, there is a minimum quota of
tanks to hit and the usual time bonus if you shoot more than the
allocated number.

ARM WRESTLING
This calls upon your full "joystick waggling" powers as you try and
build-up and maintain maximum power to defeat your opponent. In
the one player game you will be pitted against the computer, whilst
in the two player game you'll be competing one on one. This event is
purely for a time bonus and you will not be drummed out of the
School if you fail!

FIRING RANGE THREE
This is similar in control to the first firing range, but you must avoid
shooting any of the red targets. If you do inadvertantly hit one of
these then your cursor will freeze until the next batch of targets
appear, thus preventing you from shooting any of the true targets.
This is the hardest firing range of all and you will be called upon to
use all your firing prowess that you have learned in the previous
rounds. Time is short so shoot wisely and carefully! The usual time
bonus situation applies.

COMBAT WITH INSTRUCTOR
The most difficult event of all. Here you are one on one against your
instructor and must use all your martial arts and combat skills to
defeat him. You can only incur a maximum number of hits within the
given time (as can your instructor). The object is to subdue your
opponent within the given time or you will not graduate! Using a
combination of movement left and right, you can also jump up and
kick or punch. Much practice is required to perfect your technique
and don't forget - your instructor has more experience than you!

CHIN-UPS
If you fail to qualify in the fist six events by a very narrow margin, you
will be given a second chance to continue. This will take the form of
a number of chin-ups that need to be performed in a specific time.
This is a "joystick waggler" and you must build-up and maintain
power for as long as possible to complete the necessary number:
only if you do complete the required amount can you move on to the
next event. If you fail in any of the above events you will be drummed
out of the Combat School and will have to start from scratch.

THE MISSION
If you eventually graduate, you will be sent on a top secret mission to
rescue a hostage in the American Embassy. This mission will call
upon all the powers you have learned in training. The actual
execution of the mission, however, is classified and very few details
are available. All that is known is that your assailants will be heavily
armed and must be both avoided and subdued before they have time
to use their weaponry. Good luck and don't be a chicken!


STATUS AND SCORING

Points are scored within the different stages depending on how
efficiently you complete that event. On timed events, if you complete
before the time runs out you may be awarded a time bonus, to be
carried forward to the next level. Similarly, on the shooting events if
you manage to achieve the set number of hits in the specified time
and continue hitting your targets before the time is up, you will be
again awarded a time bonus depending on the number of extra hits
you have accumulated.

The points work on an accumulative basis and if you graduate the tot;
points earned will have an effect on the ranking you achieve. There is
no rank awarded if you fail to graduate from the Combat School but
a high score, if earned, will be displayed


HINTS AND TIPS

* Learn to pace yourself- if your power level shows you operating
on full speed then it is pointless to exert more effort as this will make
no difference to your performance.

* Try and collect as much time bonus as possible in the various
stages as this will have an accumulative effect on successive events.

* There are many strategies for combat with the instructor, but one
of the most effective is to jump towards him, strike quickly, and jump
back again out of range.

* You do not have to be the victor in the arm wrestling contest to
continue in Combat School - this is only a bonus event which will
enable you to pick up a time bonus for the third firing range, however
this is very useful.

* If you do manage to progress to the mission stage bear in mind
this is not against the clock and it may be prudent to wait in various
areas for the right moment to strike.



COMBAT SCHOOL

Its program code, graphic representation and artwork are the
copyright of Ocean Software Limited and may not be reproduced,
stored, hired or broadcast in any form whatsoever without the
written permission of Ocean Software Limited. All rights reserved
worldwide.

This software product has been carefully developed and
manufactured to the highest quality standards. Please read carefully
the instructions for loading. IF FOR ANY REASON YOU HAVE
DIFFICULTY IN RUNNING THE PROGRAMME, AND BELIEVE THAT
THE PRODUCT IS DEFECTIVE, PLEASE RETURN IT DIRECT TO:
MR. YATES, OCEAN SOFTWARE LIMITED, 6 CENTRAL STREET, MANCHESTER M2 5NS.
Our quality control department will test the product and supply an
immediate replacement if we find a fault. If we cannot find a fault the
product will be returned to you at no charge. Please note that this
does not affect your statutory rights.

AMSTRAD
Coding by James Higgins and Mike Lamb. Graphics by Ronnie
Fowles. Music/effects by David Whittaker.

SPECTRUM
Coding by Andrew Deakin and Mike Lamb. Graphics by Ivan Horn
Music/effects by David Whittaker.

COMMODORE
Coding by David Collier and Allan Shortt Graphics by Simon Butler
and Sean Ridings. Music/effects by Martin Galway.

Produced by D. C. Ward. © 1987 Ocean Software Limited.

COMBAT SCHOOL TM and Konami ©
are trademarks of KONAMI. © KONAMI 1987
