Contact Sam Cruise  (c)1986 Microsphere

Just another day at the Sam Cruise Detective Agency. I hear the staccato
rattle of Daisy at the old typewriter in the outer office: the band in my
head starts to tune up. I reach for a strong coffee. Pulling up the blind I
look out of the grimy window into the street below. Ordinary people going
about their ordinary business, unaware of the intrigues on their doorsteps.
What do they know of the Fat Man, or the mysterious goings on at No.19?.
Luscious Lana wiggles past, a sly smile playing across her ruby red lips. A
gust of wind disturbs the garbage on the sidewalk.

And then the phone rings...

Keys and controls

Joystick selection is made after the game has loaded. Press J on the screen
you should see 'Select Joystick'. Press K for Kempston, I for Sinclair
Interface 2, C for Cursor or N if there is no joystick

Keyboard controls

Q=UP            A=DOWN
O=LEFT          P=RIGHT
PRESS Q,A,O,P + CAPS SHIFT TO MOVE FASTER
B=PULL/DRAW BLIND (WHEN STANDING NEXT TO A BLIND)
D=CHANGE DISGUISE
F=FUSE
G=GET/PICKUP OBJECT(OBJECTS FLASH WHEN YOU PASS OVER THEM)
I=INFORMATION-SLOWS THE SPEED MESSAGES CROSS THE SCREEN
K=KNOCK/USE KEY (WHEN AT A DOOR) ALSO OPENS DOOR FROM THE INSIDE
L=LIGHTSWITCH ON/OFF (WHEN STANDING NEXT TO A SWITCH)
R=FORWARD ROLL
S=AERIAL SOMERSAULT
T=USE TELEPHONE
H=HANG UP TELEPHONE

Plus various other keys which will be explained as you pick up certain
objects during a game.

Screen Panels

In the centre is an icon panel which displays the objects you possess and
those around you.

1)door Whenever you are opposite a door. This also appears if you are in
jail and the cell door is locked.

2)light The bulb flashes if you're opposite a light switch

3)fuse The fuse symbol appears if you are next to a fuse. There is only one
in each main building.

4)phone Fairly obvious when it's ringing. Use T to pick up the phone. Each
phone has it's own number, but at the start of the game, the only number you
know is your own -7337. Numbers are revealed at various points in the game.

5)first aid There are ten of these kits to start with and you must use one 
each time you're shot.

6)keys Entering the house without a key is a break in and the police will be
called. After that you will be a wanted man. There are 4 keys - to find out
if you have the right key for a house, just knock on the door. If it opens
you've got the key. If you have to wait for someone to answer then you
haven't.

The disguise panel is on the right. There are a number of disguises Sam can
use. Disguises recognised by the police as being Sam will appear in red, all
others will appear blue. Obviously fewer and fewer disguises will be
available as the game progresses. Certain disguises must of course be used
at certain times.

Acquiring fame and wealth
You have two sources of money. Apart from clients fees, you can trap the
proceeds of the recent bank robbery which unfortunately was scattered from a
high building and has been blowing through the city streets ever since.
Experiments have shown that the only way to acquire such money so to execute
a perfect somersault. Should you manage to land on such a piece of valuable
litter, you can keep whatever bill it is.

Cruise clues
You have a better chance of escape if you switch off the lights in a 
building as you run past them.
999 calls give away your location to the police who will then arrive at that 
address: this may or may not be useful.
You can only blow each fuse once. It stops any other movement in that 
particular building, to give you a better chance of escape.
No.19 is the Gangster house. Any method of entry is ok as the police will 
not go to this house.
Rolls and somersaults are useful to avoid the snipers bullets. try rolling 
under the high ones and somersaulting over the low ones
The game is over if you are shot and have no 1st aid kits left or if you 
have run out of money.

Loading the program

To load contact Sam Cruise.

1. Important Unplug your computer and reconnect it, to clear it completely
2. Set the volume control on your cassette recorder to somewhere near the 
middle. Rewind the cassette to the beginning of the tape.
3.Connect the EAR socket of the cassette recorder to the EAR socket of the 
Spectrum. Make sure that there is nothing in the MIC socket of the cassette 
recorder
4. Type LOAD""
5. Press ENTER and press play on the cassette recorder.

If the tape fails to load, try again with different volume levels. The 
program is recorded on both sides of the tape, so if one side fails to load 
try using the other side. the program is recorded in two slightly different 
ways to allow for the full range of cassette players
If it still fails to load,return it to the place of purchase or if not 
possible send it back to MICROSPHERE at the address below, with proof of 
purchase and stating when and where it was bought, for a replacement.
Replacements will only be given to the original purchaser upon satisfactory 
proof of purchase.

Microsphere Computer Services Ltd.
72 Rosebery Road
London
N10 2LA.

Inlay typed by Simon Rooney 2003
