=============
Critical Mass
=============
Document created by rstuart@ukonline.co.uk on 12th August 2000 for
World of Spectrum: http://www.void.jump.org

From the box:
=============
Durell software, Castle Lodge, Castle Green, Taunton, Somerset TA1 4AB.

An outlying system of the Terra Federation has set up an advanced anti-matter
conversion plant on a centrally positioned asteroid to supply the local
colonists with energy. A surprise attack by alien forces has successfully
overcome the asteroid's defences and the aliens are now threatening to
self-destruct the power plant unless the colonists offer an unconditional
surrender. The self-destruction process would effectively turn the power
plant into a massive black hole that would wipe out the entire planetary
system along with a number of nearby stars. Unconditional surrender offers
an equally horrific prospect. Your mission is to infiltrate the enemy
position and disable the anti-matter plant before the aliens achieve CRITICAL
MASS.

(C) Durell Software 1985. This computer game is sold subject to the condition
that it is for home use only. All other rights reserved.
Illustration and Design by Tim Hayward

Instructions:
=============
Critical Mass by Simon Francis
------------------------------
Compatible with Kempston, Protek and most other joystick interfaces.

Loading Instructions
--------------------
Place the cassette in the tape recorder and rewind. Make sure the recorder is
properly adjusted and connected to the computer. Type LOAD "" and press the
ENTER key.

Standard Controls
-----------------
Z   Joystick LEFT   Rotate left
X   Joystick RIGHT  Rotate right
Q   Joystick UP     Accelerate
A   Joystick FIRE   Fire

Screen Displays
---------------
Four counters and gauges are displayed at the bottom left of the playing
screen, along with a pointer that indicates either the direction of the
nearest enemy or the direction of the nearest replacement vehicle. The
counters and gauges are:

Top Left            Score
Bottom Left         Energy
Top Right           Time till Critical Mass
Bottom Right        Distance till end of zone

Quick Start Instructions
------------------------
Keep flying towards the right of the screen. Avoid all rocks and mines. Watch
the pointer to find the direction of incoming aliens and shoot to kill, but
don't waste energy. If your craft gets destroyed follow the pointer till you
find a new ship in a replacement pod. When you come to the wall shoot the
turret in between the two force gates and then move through quickly. When
you get to the anti-matter converter shoot the top of the pyramid shaped
energy concentrator before you get sucked-in and vapourised.

Your Mission
------------
You will be deposited on the asteroid at a considerable distance west of
the power plant. You must proceed east at maximum speed to enter and disable
the anti-matter converter before it reaches critical mass.

Your craft is of the rocket-propelled hover type, allowing high speed strike
capability, without fear of either radar or seismic detection through contact
with the surface. However the very fact that it does not have contact with
the surface restricts its manoeuvrability, and only a skilled pilot will be
able to guide it at speeds through the rocky terrain without blowing its
force field. This force field protection system will cusion its impact when
in collision with rocks, and will then slowly regenerate itself to full
power. However it will collapse if over-used and implode on your strike
craft. The force field is also effective against attacks by the aliens and
local life-forms within the same limitations.

A further protection system is built into your craft that will detect such
implosition just before it occurs and automatocally eject you. You should
then use your emergency jet-pack to fly to a new ship in one of the dome-
shaped replacement pods that will be sending out a homing signal indicated
by your screen pointer. You will be unprotected while using the jet-pack so
keep away from the worm-like local life forms, and avoid all rocks and mines.

Your craft is armed with a high-density light phasor that can penetrate all
known energy protection shields, though this too is linked to your craft's
energy banks and will cause implosion if heavily over-used.

The alien forces are dispersed around the power plant, and in the early zones
you will only encounter their long distance raiders and unfused mines. As you
proceed through the zones you will face increasingly hostile opposition,
plus fused and guided mines. As you pass through the zones you will recieve
updated intelligence reports on your CMC screen.

The power plant is heavily guarded by a protective wall, fused mines and
amorphous clouds of molecular disorientation. To enter the power plant zone
you will have to fly towards the force gates, which you will be able to
briefly disable and pass through by shooting at the front of the turret in
the middle of the two gates. This would take considerable skill even without
the clouds which are likely to send you spinning against the mines.

Once inside the power plant zone you will be drawn in towards the energy
transfer beam which you must destroy by shooting the top centre of the
pyramid-shaped energy concentrator in the middle of the device. If you fail
to hit your target quickly you will be drawn into the beam and vapourised.

Skill Levels
------------
The easiest is skill level 1. These levels affect the following:-

    Number of replacement pods
    Rate at which energy is used

Score
-----
Your score will increase according to a formula which allows for the type of
alien hit, and the number of aliens already destroyed.

Bonus points will be awarded on your CMC screen for the total number of
aliens destroyed on completion of a zone.
