THE SPECTRUM GAMES DATABASE

CYBERUN

PUBLISHER
Ultimate Play The Game (ACG)

AUTHORS
US Gold in House Team

YEAR OF RELEASE
May 1986


DESCRIPTION
Cyberun is a "Thrust" type game in as much as you control a
spacecraft of one form or another and have to explore a planet's
surface and also explore beneath it.  The object of the game is
to construct your spacecraft and mine ores.

INSTRUCTIONS
Find the correct pieces of your craft that are littered around
the game area and connect them to your spacecraft.

CONTROLS

CYBERUN KEYBOARD CONTROLS

LEFT Your Spaceship will Move Left using the Z, C, B and M keys.

RIGHT Your Spaceship will Move Right using the X, V N and SYMBOL
SHIFT keys.

THRUST UP Your Spaceship will be Thrusted Up using A, S, D, F row
etc.

LASER/PHOTON TORPEDO You can use your Laser/Photon torpedo using
Q, W, E, R, T row etc.

PLASMA RAY You can use your Plasma Ray using the 1-0 keys.

PAUSE The Whole game can be continuously paused using the CAPS
SHIFT or BREAK SPACE keys.


CHEATS


SEQUELS/PREQUELS


INLAY CARD TEXT

CYBERUN

In the dark reaches of the Amobeus Nebula stands the isolated
series of stars and planets, the Beta Gamma System.  But to those
who have taken the Space, the Zebarema.  A tightly bound cluster
of planets and dark stars, totally unique in the Whole Universe,
bound together by a lattice of Plasmic Energy, extending between
one and all Planets in the System.  Each planet is composed of
Anti-element Cybertron, it is the only known source in the whole
universe and such is its value that many such civilisations have
devoted their entire resources to prying off one of the smaller
outer planets from the main cluster, in a futile bid to gain
access to the untold wealth it would bring, once free from the 
Antiplasmic Lattice, and becomes exposed to positive matter
space, it crystalises to form Cybernite, the hardest substance
in the known universe, resistant to all forms of heat and energy,
allowing the weilders to mine the greatest form of energy ever,
the stars. For who can control the Zebarema, can control the
Galaxy.  But the Beta Gamma System "Zebarema" is reluctant to
give up its Cybernite Crystals and exerts an almost unbeatable
magnetronic pull on all matter trying to escape its protective
envelope.

Thus the undertaking of construction of an enormous carrier of
The precious Cargo, the Crystal Ship.  Many years and many lives
have been spent on this vast Space Sailer and the time draws
near, for the ship'a destined function, for only the Superlative
Power of one such vessel can resist the magnetronic pull exerted
by the system on any leaving body.  Due to its immense size, the
ship has been constructed in stages which have already been
shipped out to the Zebarema System.  These propulsion units are
of little use elsewhere in the Galaxy and have been constructed
solely for use as escape Engines and Auxilliaries which obey the
strange physical laws particular to the Beta Gamma System.

The command module is ready and awaits only the pre-launch
computer checks to secure Lift Off.  The Crystal Ship has been
equipped with military lasers, as the Legendary Hourney is sure
to be opposed by the murdering barbaric inhabitants of nearby
Galaxies, perhaps they may have constructed a Space Cruiser to
utilise the mining and thrus equipment already in the Zebarema
System.

Who could have forseen their production of the Mark III Crystal
Ship and its earlier unscheduled arrival on the Cybertron Planet? 
And so begins the greatest journey of all time, the race through
Space for command of the Universe, THE CYBERUN...


SCORES/REVIEWS
Crash, issue 28 (May 1986), page 26, 90 percent.

SNAPSHOTS/URLS
ftp.dcc.uchile.cl/pub/OS/sinclair/snapshots/c/cyberun.zip

FACTS ABOUT THE GAME
The only post "Knightlore" game that wasn't in their
ever-so-poular and over used, isometric 3D format.


NOTES
For some (sane) reason, Cyberun DOESN'T feature a silly list of
daft and irrelevantly LONG list of all the game's features - Phew!























