Cybernoid (c) 1987 Hewson Consultants Ltd
-----------------------------------------

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

Spectrum Cassette

48K ZX Spectrum, ZX Spectrum Plus or ZX Spectrum 128 with cassette player,
ZX Spectrum +2, Spectrum +3.

You are advised to disconnect all hardware from the rear edge connector with
the exception of your joystick interface (if any). When using a Sinclair
Unterface 2 or the ZX Spectrum +2 plug the appropriate Joystick into port 1.
Unless using a ZX Spectrum +2 connect a cassette player to the computer in
the usual manner. ZX Spectrum +2/+3 and 128 users should select 48K mode.
Rewind the cassette if necessary, enter LOAD"" on the computer keybopard and
press the ENTER key. Press the PLAY key on the cassette player. The game
takes a few minutes to load.

Spectrum +3 Disc

You are advised to disconnect all hardware from the rear edge connector with
the exception of your joystick interface (if any). Place the disc into the
drive and press the ENTER key.

SCENARIO

Federation storage depots have been raided by pirates, taking valuable
minerals, jewals, ammunition and the latest battle weaponary. You have been
commissioned by the Federation to retrieve the cargo and return it to a
storage within a specified time limit. Extra points and an extra ship will
be awarded if you succeed.

The pirate craft have activated all planetary defence systems which you will
have to negotiate as well as the pirates themselves. If you fail to reach
the depot within the time limit or the value of your retrieved cargo is
insufficent you must forfeit one of your Cybernoid ships.

CONTROLS

Default control keys are as follows or use a joystick:

Left  - O
Right - P
Up    - Q
Fire  - Space
Pause - Press CAPS SHIFT & SYMBOL SHIFT

To abort press 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 1 simultaneously.

GAMEPLAY

When a pirate craft has been destroyed it willdfrop its cargo of stolen
objects. Manoeuvre your ship over the object to retrieve it. Certain objects
will alter the appearance of your ship; these objects offer external
weponary that can be utilised on difficult screens. Occasionally, when a
pirate craft is detroyed it will drop a yellow canister. This canister when
retrieved, will increase the amount of the currently selected weapon by one.

DISPLAY PANEL

From left to right the display panel selections are as follows:

1. Displays the number of ships left.
2. The top number shows your current score. The bottom number shows the
   value of cargo you have retrieved on the current level.
3. Displays the current weapon mode in text. Number on the left shows the
   amount of the current weapon that you have. Number on the right is the
   maximum storage capacity for the current weapon.
4. The coloured graph gives an indication of how much time you have to reach
   the end of level depot. When the graph has totally disappeared your time
   limit has expired.

WEAPON MODES

Keys 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 select your ships weapon modes:

1 - BOMBS - Destroy large defence emplacements.
2 - IMPACT MINES - When placed at strategic points halt any pirate craft.
3 - DEFENCE SHIELD - Temporarily render your ship invincible.
4 - BOUNCE BOMBS - Bounce around destroying any emplacements they touch.
5 - SEEKER - Tracks down its quarry.

Hold FIRE button down to activate the selected weapon.

CREDITS

(c) Hewson Consultants 1988. 

The program and data are copyright and may not be reproduced in part or in
total by any means without the written permission of Hewson Consultant Ltd.
All rights reserved. No responsibility is accepted for any errors.

Our policy is one of constant improvement. Therefore, we reserve the right
to modify any product without notice.

Hewson Consultants Ltd.
56b Milton Park
Milton
Abingdon
Oxon OX14 4RX

Complete Instructions typed in by Paul Thompson, March 2003
