DALEY THOMPSON'S OLYMPIC CHALLENGE

DALEY'S BACK... with the chance for you to take on his gruelling role in the
ten Olympic Decathlon events. This time the gold medal is not enough, you're 
out to beat the world record as well and accumulate over 9000 points, only
then will you qualify for the role of the "World's Greatest Athlete".

An exhausting work out in the gym will help you get started, where, under 
the watchful eye of your coach, you can build up your strength and power to 
the maximum.

Only then will you be in a position to pit your stamina against the record 
book and like Daley enter the arena of the all-time greats.

LOADING
-------
CASSETTE
1. Place the cassette in your recorder ensuring that it is fully rewound.
2. Ensure that the MIC socket is disconnected and that the volume and tone 
   controls are set to the appropiate levels.
3. If the computer is a Spectrum 48K or Spectrum + then load as follows.
   Type LOAD "" (ENTER). (Note there is no space between the two quotes).
   The " is obtained by pressing the SYMBOL SHIFT and P keys simultaneously.
4. Press PLAY on your recorder and the game will load automatically. If you
   have any problems try adjusting the volume and tone controls and 
   consulting Chapter 6 of the Spectrum manual.
5. If the computer is a Spectrum 128K then follow the loading instructions
   on-screen or in the accompanying manual.

SPECTRUM 48K
Please note this game loads in more than one part, follow on-screen
instructions at all times.

SPECTRUM 128K
This program loads in one load from side A.

SPECTRUM +3 DISK
Set up system and switch on as described in your instruction manual. Insert
disk and press ENTER to choose 'LOADER' option. This program will then load 
automatically in one load from side A.

CONTROLS
--------
The game may be controlled by Keyboard which is fully redefinable or 
Kempston, Cursor or Sinclair (port I) Joystick.

KEYBOARD
O - Left
P - Right
M - Fire

HOW TO PLAY
-----------
In all the events, power is all important. Continuous left and right 
joystick movement, or key depression, builds up the power. This is most
important in the track events e.g. 100m, 400m, 1500m and also the high 
jump. However, in the 1500m, once you have built up your power, then only a
small rate of left and right movement is needed to sustain your speed.

In the remaining events, the pressing of the "fire" button at the correct
moment is essential. For instance in the final track event the 110m 
hurdles, the depression of "fire", at the "precise moment" is needed to 
clear the hurdles, if any are knocked over then your power is reduced.

To succeed in the long jump, you must build up your power on the run-up to
the line and when the line appears, press "fire". The length of time that
the fire button is pressed, determines the angle of the jump, then finally
you must release "fire", before you reach the line and begin the jump.

The shot putt and discus are similar to the long jump, in that the use of
the "fire" button is the same. Firstly, build up your power and when you 
begin the throw, press "fire", as before.

The javelin is slightly different. Firstly, build up your power using 
"left" and "right". When you approach the line, press and release the "fire"
button, the angle of the javelin will then increase, and finally press 
"fire" again to release the javelin at the correct angle.

In the Pole Vault you must build the speed of your run-up to the bar and
press "fire" to position the pole in the ground. When this is done 
successfully, a 3D view of "Daley" rising up towards the bar will appear on
the screen. At the correct moment you must press "fire", so that he will 
clear the bar.

Your skill and enjoyment will improve with practice and you'll probably
develop new techniques of winning yourself!.

GOOD LUCK

TRAINING
A bottle of Lucozade (portraying your energy level) is shown at the top of
the screen. At the start of each training session, the bottle will be empty 
and the more exersice you do, the more the bottle will fill up.

This has a general effect on your energy level in all events i.e. the 
better you train, the higher the level in the bottle, the greater your
overall performance.

FOOTWEAR
At the start of each event, a menu will be presented from which you must
select the correct Adidas footwear for the heat, failure to make the right 
choice will result in an inferior performance. If, however, you do select
wrongly, the correct shoe will be indicated after the choice has been made.
Make a note of this for next time!

HINTS AND TIPS
--------------
. The selection of the correct Adidas trainers is vital for a good 
  performance. Through trial and error you will discover which trainers 
  suit which event.
. In the javelin, try to get a throwing angle of around 45ş for maximum 
  distance.
. In the shot putt and discus, press fire as soon as Daley begins his 
  throw.
. In the 1500m, once you have built up your power to it's maximum, a 
  smaller rate of "left" and "right" movement is needed to keep your speed
  up.


Its program code, graphic representation and artwork are the copyright of
Ocean Software Limited and may not be reproduced, stored, hired or 
broadcast in any form whatsoever without the written permission of Ocean
Software Limited. All rights reserved worldwide.

THIS SOFTWARE PRODUCT HAS BEEN CAREFULLY DEVELOPED AND MANUFACTURED TO THE
HIGHEST QUALITY STANDARDS. PLEASE READ CAREFULLY THE INSTRUCTIONS FOR 
LOADING.

If for any reason you have difficulty in running the program and believe 
that the product is defective, please return to:

Mr Yates, Ocean Software Limited, 6 Central Street, Manchester M2 5NS.

Our quality control department will test the product and supply an 
immediate replacement if we find a fault. If we cannot find a fault the
product will be returned to you at no charge. Please note that this does 
not affect your statutory rights.

CREDITS
-------
Programmed by Dave Thompson
Graphics by William Harbison
Music and Sound Effects by Jonathon Dunn
Produced by D.C. Ward
(c)1988 Ocean Software Limited
Lucozade is a registered trademark of Beecham Group Plc.
Ocean Software Limited thank Adidas U.K. Limited for their collaboration.