E-MOTION
U.S. Gold


SCENARIO

E-Motion takes place in the sub-atomic world where particles can be
brought into existence, accelerated, collided and destroyed. Strange
elastic bonds can form between particles and complex lattices will
block your path. But beware, nothing is stable in this strange world,
and only the most experienced and expert nuclear pilots can prevent
particle melt-down ...


GAMEPLAY

E-Motion gives you control of a ship which can be rotated left and
right, and moved in the direction it is currently facing. The ship is
used to push coloured spheres around the screen and each sphere may be
one of three different colours (contain one of three different shapes).
At the start of a level, these spheres pulsate slowly, but as the
levels progress they pulsate faster and faster until finally they
explode. Every time a sphere explodes, energy is lost (indicated by a
bar at the top of the screen). When the energy bar reduces to zero, a
life is lost; when all lives are lost the game is over. The strategy
is to avoid the exploding spheres by pushing two spheres of the same
colour (same shape) together, whereby they'll both disappear harm-
lessly. If you should accidentally push two differently coloured
(different shaped) spheres together, a small pod is formed. Initially
this can be picked up for an energy recharge, but if left alone for
too long it grows into a new full-sized sphere, which must itself then
be disposed of. The level finishes when there are no spheres left on-
screen. If there is only one sphere left on-screen then obviously it
cannot be disposed of by pushing it into another one, so it explodes
immediately, to finish the level.

To complicate your progress, there are pipes scattered around the
screens which both your ship and the spheres will bounce off. On some
levels spheres are joined by elastic bonds which means that to push
one around will result in it dragging other spheres (or even your
ship) with it. Most levels have all the spheres that you need to
finish, but a few higher levels leave out some of them, which forces
you to make new spheres by pushing together different coloured ones.

Every fourth level is a bonus level where you have the chance to score
bonus points but you cannot lose a life. There are three different
types of bonus level and each one contains instructions as to what
must be done to score points.

There are 50 levels in all and upon completion of all levels comes the
congratulations sequence.

There are five secret bonuses to be discovered throughout the game.
When each one is found a message flashes up at the end of the level on
which it was found.


GETTING STARTED

E-Motion requires a colour monitor and is best played with a joystick
(though the keyboard can be used). When the game has loaded, the title
screen is displayed, followed by the high score page and then a demo
mode. Watching the demo mode will give you an idea of what to expect
when you start a game. Press the FIRE button to take you to the
opening menu, where you can preset all of your options.


MODE: NORMAL, PRACTICE OR DEMO
NORMAL MODE: play the game. PRACTICE MODE: try the first five levels
but without the balls ever exploding. DEMO MODE: runs the same demo
sequence which is seen in the attract mode.

PLAYERS: ONE OR TWO
E-Motion can be played by two players simultaneously, each controlling
their own ship. Both players must co-operate to finish a level. The
players share one joint score.

JOYSTICK/KEYBOARD CONTROLS
These can be set according to preference. Note: On the Atari ST,
playing a two-player game with both players on the keyboard will be
restricted because only two keys can be detected at once.

CONTROL MODE: NORMAL OR ALTERNATIVE
The mode that most people will recognise at once is the left-right-
thrust mode used as as default. As an alternative, though, there is
another mode where left and right work as normal but up accelerates
and down brakes.

ROTATION SPEED: FAST OR SLOW
If you find it difficult to control your ship, try adjusting your
rotation speed to slow instead. The ship will then rotate at half
speed.


After selecting your options, press FIRE to start the game. Your 
preferences are remembered for the rest of the session, so you can go
straight past the menu by pressing FIRE twice in succession from the
title page.


CONTROLS

	CBM 64	SPECTRUMAMSTRAD	ATARI/ST/AMIGA/IBM PC

PLAYER 1
UP	W	Q	Q	W
DOWN	X	A	A	X
LEFT	A	Z	Z	A
RIGHT	S	X	X	S
FIRE	SPACE	C	C	SPACE

PLAYER 2
UP	I	P	P	up-arrow    or 8 numeric keypad
DOWN	,	L	L	down-arrow  or 2 numeric keypad
LEFT	K	B	B	left-arrow  or 4 numeric keypad
RIGHT	L	N	N	right-arrow or 6 numeric keypad
FIRE	RETURN	M	M	0 numeric keypad

GENERAL	
PAUSE	P	H	H	P
QUIT	CBM KEY	F&G	ESC	ESC
SAVE	D
RESTORE	R
SOUND				F9
ON/OFF

	CONTROL MODE 1	CONTROL MODE 2
UP	-		THRUST
DOWN	FLIP		DECELERATE
LEFT	ROTATE LEFT	ROTATE LEFT
RIGHT	ROTATE RIGHT	ROTATE RIGHT
FIRE	THRUST		FLIP


SCORING

Points are awarded for pushing spheres together; either 200, 250 or
300 points depending on the colour of the spheres. At the end of each
level, a 500 point bonus is awarded if no pods are created. A 1,000
point bonus is awarded if no spheres explode during the level. An
extra life is awarded for every 20,000 points.


E-Motion was conceived, designed and programmed by The Assembly Line.
Additional artwork by Blue Turtle. 8-bit conversions by The Code Monkeys.
Technical and administrative support by U.S. Gold Ltd.

(c) & P 1990 U.S. Gold Ltd.

 
