EARTHLIGHT
==========

Loading the program
-------------------
To load on a 48k spectrum (or 128k spectrum in 48k mode), type LOAD"" and then
press ENTER

To load on a 128k spectrum, select the TAPE LOADER option from the start-up
menu.

Approximate loading times are 48k - 5 mins, and 128k - 6 mins.


Controls
--------
Once the program has loaded you will see the message 'Press Space, N or FIRE'.
To select a Sinclair or Kempsten joystick, simply press the fire button.
Otherwise, press Space or N depending on which you prefer.

The Keys used in the game are:

LEFT                O or Joystick
RIGHT               P or Joystick
UP (Inwards)        S or Joystick
DOWN (Outwards)     Z or Joystick

FIRE                Space or N or Joystick

Increase Height     Q
Decrease Height     W

(Any or all of these keys may be re-defined)

Press FIRE again to move to the main menu.
You will see a list of four options;

Play Game, High Scores, View / Alter Keys, Configure Game.

To select an option, move the pointer to your choice and press FIRE.


The Display
-----------
The top third of the screen shows your ship's panel.
The panel shows, from Left to Right...

     Fuel and Shield levels (These flash if dangerously low).
     Current Zone
     Score
     Lives Left
     Current Level
     Missiles Remaining


Playing Earthlight
------------------
Your mission is to collect the matter transmitters (small boxes) while avoiding
all the sentry and industrial robots. Once all the transmitters have been
collected, you must return to base (the hemisphere you started from) to complete
the zone. If you return to base before collecting all the transmitters you will
be given a breakdown of your performance so far.

The game is played over four levels each with eight zones. In each level you can
choose the order in which you tackle the zones. When all the zones are cleared
you will automatically be transported to the next level.

On entering each zone you are given the opportunity of altering the balance of
fuel, missiles and shield energy for your ship. While in the zone, press BREAK
will pause the game and allow you to abandon the zone (losing your score in that
zone) or abandon the whole game.
