THE SPECTRUM GAMES DATABASE

ESCAPE FROM THE PLANET OF THE ROBOT MONSTERS

PUBLISHER
Domark

AUTHOR

YEAR
1990

CATEGORY
Arcade

DESCRIPTION
EFTPOTRM is an isometric arcade game.

CONTROLS
Keyboard, Sinclair

 KEYS          Player One     Player Two
     Turn left     Z              N
     Turn right    X              M
     Move forward  Q              O
     Throw bomb    S              P
     Fire          A              K

INSTRUCTIONS
Playing as either Jake or Duke, you must rescue Professor Sarah
Bellum and the enslaved hostages before they are turned into
Robo-Zombies. Find and break into the food and bomb lockers to
get special weapons to help you destroy the evil Reptilons.

The object of the game is to progress through the factories of
Planet X rescuing the hostages and destroying their Reptilon
guards.  To activate the elevators you encounter, find the power
switch and turn it on. This will allow you to reach the
"Port-O-Matic" and exit the level.

Around the complex of factories you will find lockers that
contain food, extra energy, more bombs or sometimes special
weapons that will increase your chances of survival. When
destroyed, some of the Reptilons will leave behind green crystals
that enhance your "ray power". The more crystals you collect, the
more devastating your weapon will become.

To rescue the hostages simply run into them and they will be
beamed aboard your rescue ship which is orbiting Planet X. Some
of the hostages, however, have been imprisoned in glass cases.
To unlock the cases you must find the computer console that
controls them and destroy it with your ray gun.

Every three levels you will encounter an Evil Reptilon which can
only be destroyed by continuous shooting and bombing. Watch out
- each Reptilon has its own form of defence! At the end of each
factory, you will be shown a bonus screen where you are rewarded
for each freed hostage on that level. If you have rescued a full
shuttle load of hostages you are awarded an extra bar of energy.

SCORES RECEIVED
Crash "EFTPOTRM is a must". RATING : 90% (CRASH #78, July 1990)
