                               FIENDISH FREDDY'S

                           * BIG TOP O' FUN MANUAL *


                                                           Amstrad CPC 464/6128
                                                               Commodore 64/128
                                                         Spectrum 128K (+2, +3)


WHAT YOU NEED


Amstrad CPC 464/6128

* A monitor - either Colour or Monochrome.
* A joystick (or play the game with the keyboard using the cursor keys and
  space bar as fire).


Commodore 64/128

* A Commodore 64 computer or a 128 in 64 mode.
* A disk drive or a cassette player.
* A joystick connected to port two.
* A suitable television or monitor.


Spectrum 128K (+2 or +3)

* A Spectrum +2 or +3 computer.
* A suitable television or monitor.
* A joystick.

                                       1

LUMINOUS
LOADING INSTRUCTIONS


Amstrad CPC 464/6128

Disk Version
1. Insert the disk with side one facing upwards.
2. Type | CPM and press return.

Cassette Version
1. Insert the Introduction Side of the cassette and rewind it fully.
2. Type "RUN" and press return
3. If you want to skip the introduction, then insert the Game Side of the
   cassette and type "RUN" and then press return.

Commodore 64/128

Disk Version
1. Insert the disk label side up
2. Type Load "*",8,1 and press return.

Cassette Version
1. Insert the cassette label side up.
2. Hold down shift and press Run/Stop together.
3. If you want to skip the introduction, then insert and rewind side two of the
   cassette, hold down shift and press Run/Stop together.

                                       2

Spectrum 128K (+2, +3)

Disk and Cassette version.
1. Select "Loader" from the menu when you turn on the machine. This will
   load and run the game automatically.

Note: The practice option is not available to cassette users.

                                       3

THE GLORIOUS GAME


Blasted Big Bank! Your small, struggling circus is about to be seized by a
sinister scumbag, to whom you owe the sum of 10,000 smackeroos. Your Big
Top will be blacktop if you don't bag the bucks needed to banish the
barbarous banker from your beloved business. To make matters more
miserable, he's sent Fiendish Freddy to foil your fragile finances and prevent
your people from performing at their peak. Your objective is to obliterate this
financial obligation by perfectly performing the precarious perils of the Big
Top. Thus you will thrill the throng of spectators while also earning the
megabucks needed to expand your arena.


THE MAGNIFICENT MENU


After the opening sequence, the carnival hawker and the Main Menu will
come on the screen. This menu allows you to choose Game or Practice Mode.
Practice Mode lets you practice any particular event as many times as you
like. Game Mode takes you through all six events (in order) and will give a
score to each player.

Practice Mode

To select practice Mode, use the joystick to move the pointer to the bottom of
the menu where it says PRACTICE and press the fire button. The menu
changes to a list of the six events. Now move the pointer until it is over the
event you want to practice and press the fire button. If necessary, you'll be
instructed to insert a different disk.

                                       5

Once the event has loaded, the following message appears on the screen:
                               PRESS "Q" TO QUIT
                                      OR,
                             PRESS FIRE TO CONTINUE

Whenever the fire button is pressed you'll go to the beginning of the event.
Each event has either three or four levels. You'll begin your practice at the first
level and advance to the subsequent levels only as you successfully
complete each level. Whenever you "fail" at an event, or make it through all
of the event's levels, the "Quit or Continue" message reappears. When you
are finished practicing, press Q and you will be returned to the hawker and
the Main Menu.

Game Mode

To select Game Mode, use the joystick to move the pointer to the number of
players that will be playing the game. There may be anywhere from one to five
players. Keep in mind that the $10,000 must be earned by a single player, not
accumulated from what several players earn. Thus, in a multiplayer game,
you're trying to raise the money, but you're also trying to earn more than the
other players. Once the pointer is over the desired number of players, press
the fire button.

Next, each player will select an animal character to represent the player in
the game. Each of the five characters is displayed one at a time. To scroll
through the different characters, move the pointer over the words "Next
Beast" and press the fire button. When the beast that you want appears,
move the pointer to the words "Take this beast" and press the fire button
again. When each player has selected his/her character, the ringmaster
appears and the game begins.

As each event begins, the character whose turn it is appears on the screen
along with the level he/she is performing and the message "Now Appearing".
The player then presses the fire button to begin the event.

After all of the players have completed an event, the distinguished panel of
judges will come on the screen and "score" each player by awarding him/her
a certain amount of money. After the amount of the event is given, the player
will see what his/her total is at that point. Once each player has been scored,
the Ticket Tally appears and shows the totals for all of the players.

                                       6

THE EXPLOSIVE EVENTS


Phenomenal Feats of Diving Daring

(High Diving)

To begin our Big Top O'Fun we bring you an act involving horrendous heights
and terrifying targets (especially Level 3). Only the sturdiest of souls (and
heads) will survive this stupendous spectacle.

In this event you take on the persona of Horace the High Diver. First Horace
climbs up the ladder and moves out to the end of the diving platform. On the
right side of the screen is a scale model of the diving platform. An arrow points
to the level where Horace is standing. In the upper left corner of the screen is
the name of the pose that Horace should perform first. In the lower left corner
is a picture of the diver's target.

Press the fire button to begin Horace's dive. Once Horace is airborne, begin
to quickly move the joystick from side to side, but keep Horace over the
target. This gets Horace spinning around so that he can gain enough
momentum to go into a pose. Once he is going fast enough, a bell rings and
the name of the pose flashes, indicating it's time to go into a pose.

To perform a pose, move the joystick to the appropriate position and then
press the fire button. The joystick positions for each diving pose are as
follows.

                                     Swan

                             Recline   |   Pike
                                     \ | /
                                      \|/
                              Yoga ----*---- King Tut
                                      /|\
                                     / | \
                              Ballet   |   Nose Pinch

                                   Dive Bomb

                                       7

As each pose is done, another name of a pose appears in the upper left
corner. At this point you should again move your joystick from side to side
so that you prepare for the next pose. The more poses that are correctly done,
the more money you will make on your dive - that is, as long as you hit your
target! As your man reaches the target area, he will automatically go into his
entry pose.

If you notice Horace veering from the centre of the target, move the joystick
in the direction he needs to go to steer him back on course. Once he is again
on track, go back to moving your joystick from side to side and prepare for
another pose.

With each new level, Horace starts from higher up on the platform and has
more time to perform the dives. However, it's also easier to go off course when
your man is that high in the air.

FREDDY'S ROLE
Once the bell rings indicating it's time to go into a pose, you must immediately
perform it. Failure to do so brings out Freddy with his portable, industrial-size
fan to blow you off course. With each level Freddy appears sooner if you don't
perform your poses as soon as the bell rings.


Genuine Juggling Genius

(Juggling)

It's time to welcome Jeffy-Joe the Juggler to the centre ring. As a boy he was
bemoaned as "Butterfingers", but now, he's well known the world over as the
"Wee Wizard of Wonderful Juggling" (and he's wealthy, too).

The juggling event begins with Jeffy-Joe's obedient assistant catching and
then tossing items up into the air. Jeffy-Joe then moves his unicycle to
manoeuvre himself into position to catch and then juggle each of the items.
Your objective is to keep Jeffy-Joe juggling as many items as possible until
the time limit runs out. Drop five items and Jeffy-Joe's juggling career will be
just a memory.

                                       8

To maneuvre Jeffy-Joe, push the joystick in the direction you want to move.
When you want to catch an item, move Jeffy-Joe so that he is positioned to
catch the item in either his left or right hand. When you press the fire button,
he will toss whatever is in his left hand and put whatever was in his right hand into his left
hand. He will always throw things from HIS left hand (that's
your right side), so you may want to get into the habit of catching with his right hand
and then switching it to his left. Once you toss an item release the fire button
and prepare for the next one.

If you pull back on the joystick, Jeffy-Joe brings both hands in to catch
something against his body. It doesn't matter how the items land in your
hands; you can't get hurt or penalized as long as you catch it (i.e. you can
catch a knife by the blade or a flaming stick by the fiery end).

In Levels 3 and 4 a baby becomes one of the juggling objects. Your objective
is to safely return the little tot to its carriage. Doing so removes one of the
dropped items from your tally. The carriage will roll by as you juggle the baby.
To put the baby in the carriage, position Jeffy-Joe so that after he tosses up
the baby, the baby falls not into his hands but straight down into the carriage.
Both Jeffy-Joe and the carriage must be exactly positioned for this to happen.
Beware of the tantrum that occurs if your baby misses the carriage.


                          WITHOUT FIRE BUTTON PRESSED

 Moves _________________________________________________________________ Moves
  left                                 |                                 right
                                   Brings in
                                     hands


                           WITH FIRE BUTTON PRESSED

                                    Tosses
                                     bombs
                                       |
Right hand _________________________________________________________ Left hand
   goes up        (and objects switch from right hand to left)       goes up

                                       9

FREDDY'S ROLE
Every now and then Freddy will distract your assistant and toss the items out
for him. Unfortunately, you could live without Freddy's help - REALLY. He's
only tossing bombs and missiles. If one of these items falls, it's "Kablooey"
for you (and we're not kidding either)!

To handle Freddy's bombs, catch the bomb in either hand and then press the
fire button while pushing up on the joystick. This manoeuvre will toss the
bomb back in Freddy's court. If he throws a missile into your act, simply keep
juggling it as you would any other item until time runs out for that level.


Breathtaking Bravado from Hazardous Heights

(Trapeze)

May I direct your attention high above the centre ring of our Big Top O' Fun.
It's time for yet another death-defying act of courage, bravery, and scanty
outfits that could come off at any time. It's our own Finola of the Flying Fuller
Family, and she's ready to swing her way across our tent and into your lustful
minds.

As the event opens, Finola appears in the upper right corner of the screen. In
the lower right corner you'll notice a picture of Finola's head. This represents
the second chance that you'll have should anything happen to Finola on your
first attempt. In the upper left corner you'll see the next bar swing in and out
of view.

Press the fire button to start Finola off the platform. Then move the joystick in
the direction that she should swing to get her momentum going. As Finola
swings forward you should push the joystick left. As she swings backward,
push the joystick right. To jump to the next bar, wait until the bar is moving
toward Finola as she swings forward. Then, right when she is at the top of her
swing, press the fire button. She'll then perform a beautiful flip and, if timed
correctly, grasp the next bar. The process then begins again.

In addition to just swinging from bar to bar, Finola encounters several
obstacles like paper targets and flaming hoops. Some of these are even
bobbing up and down. Again, you must time your swing so that the hoop or
target is low enough for Finola to go through.

                                       10

FREDDY'S ROLE
Where does he get those wonderful toys? In this event, Freddy is armed with
a large pair of scissors and a jet pack. He's able to fly freely about the big top
waiting for his opportunity. If you leave Finola on one bar too long while she
waits for the perfect jump, Freddy comes along and "cuts" her act short.


Deadly and Dangerous Daggers of Death

(Knife Throw)

Ah, your lovely assistant, Knancy Knife, is in a precarious position now! You'll
notice she's been blindfolded and tied to a rotating wheel, which also has
balloons placed in many strategic areas about her. Your objective here is to
break all of the balloons on the wheel before time runs out for that level.

In addition to the beautiful and scantily-clad Knancy, there is a row of knives
that represents how many tries you have to break the balloons in each level.
A clock showing your time limit appears in the upper right corner. At the
centre of the wheel is your aiming knife.

Use your joystick to move this knife around the wheel until it is over an area
where a balloon will come by. Press the fire button when you want to throw
the knife and it will fly from you to the wheel. Timing is everything in this game,
so you'll need to get a feel for how long it takes the knife to hit the wheel.

Take care not to hit Knancy. She's a real whiner and will surely let you know
if your aim is off. In addition, you'll be penalized two throws whenever your
dagger dents her.

FREDDY'S ROLE
Freddy still has a stash of bombs left over from the Juggling Event, so he's
decided to put them to good use here. Periodically, he will appear from the
side, throw his smoke bomb and then scram before it explodes. Unfortunately
for you and Knancy, you have nowhere to run. The bomb fills the screen with
smoke and generally shakes things up a bit, It will most likely throw off your
timing and your aim, so try to regain your senses as soon as you can. Besides,
he's always got another one where that came from.

                                       11

Tense Travel Techniques on Tightrope

(Tightrope)

It's time to raise your gaze once again as our fearless tightrope walker, Tony
Tiptoe, demonstrates his amazing ability to span spectacular distances while
perched at perilous heights. In other words, he's going to walk across that
really high wire!

The event begins with Tony Tiptoe poised in the upper right corner of the
screen. The platform he must walk to is positioned in the lower left corner. In
the upper left corner is the "tilt-o-metre" view of your man. This will clearly
show which way Tony Tiptoe is leaning on the rope.

Begin the event by pushing your joystick straight ahead. As Tony goes
forward he will probably lose his balance and begin to lean right or left.
Depending on the direction he leans, move your joystick right or left to
balance him again and continue moving him forward on the rope. (For
instance, if he leans left, move your joystick to the right to straighten him and
then move him forward again.) If Mr. Tiptoe leans too far and is in danger of
falling off, he will yell "Whoa" and his balancing pole will turn red. If he remains
in this dangerous position for more than a second, he will lose his balance
altogether and Freddy will be on the scene in no time.

FREDDY'S ROLE
For this event Freddy has reached deep into his bag of tricks and pulled out
some of his best. To begin with, if your man takes too long to cross the wire,
Freddy wheels out his cannon and stops your man "dead" in his tracks. In
other levels he can be seen flying about trying to push you off or hurling
circular saw blades at poor Tony.

When Freddy throws blades at Tony Tiptoe, you can deflect them with his
pole by hitting the fire button as the blade approaches him. Failing to do so
will leave Tony with a "splitting" pain.


Combustible Cannons of Colossal Courage

(Cannonball)

And now for our fantastic and fiery finale! It's the fearless (and somewhat
frenzied) Fernando, the Human Cannonball. I direct your attention to the far
end of our Big Top where Fernando is pausing prior to his last-minute
preparations (and possibly making a pass at his pert apprentice).

                                       12

This event begins with your handsome human cannonball. Fernando, taking
his pre-flight bows. In the lower right corner are two additional helmets,
representing the two other chances you'll be given in this event (That's three
chances in all.) In the lower left corner is a small outline of the cannon.

As his assistant, the lovely Lisa, loads the cannon with gunpowder, the small
outline fills with red to indicate how much gunpowder has been placed in the
cannon. Once she finishes putting in gunpowder, our hero dives in. Once
he's in the cannon, a scale version of the tent appears across the top of the
screen. In the middle of this will be the target that the little guy must hit.

Depending on how much gunpowder the lustful Lisa has placed in the
cannon, you must decide how close or far the target should be in order for
Fernando to hit it. As soon as this screen appears use your joystick to move
the target closer (left) or farther (right) from the cannon. This must be done
quickly before . . . well, read what it says under "Freddy's Role". Once your
target is where you want it to be, press the fire button.

At this point, your alluring assistant lights the fuse. Once she finishes, the
opening of the cannon begins to rotate to the right side. You must now decide
the angle at which you want Fernando to be fired out of the cannon in order
to reach his target. When the cannon is at the angle you want, press the fire
button again. This will launch the fearless Fernando.

To see how Fernando progresses, follow his path along the scale drawing
that appears at the top of the screen. If your placement of the target and angle
at which he is shot are correct, he'll land on the target. If your choices were
off, Fernando's landing will be more than a bit uncomfortable.

FREDDY'S ROLE
Once again, Freddy makes use of his jetpack so that he can fly about the tent.
This time, however, he's armed with one big cork and just guess where he
wants to stick it? Yes, if you waste too much time in this event trying to decide
where to position your target, Freddy will make sure that your act creates a
big bang.

                                       13

A WONDERFUL WIN
OR A
LOATHESOME LOSS

If any one player has accumulated $10,000 or more, then your big top is
saved from certain demise and it's curtains for Freddy. However, if no one
person raised the needed $10,000, Freddy will take up permanent residence
in the area and your circus will be nothing but a memory.


Program copyright (C) 1990 Gray Matter
All rights reserved.
Conversions for Amstrad, Commodore, and
Spectrum versions by Imagitec Design Ltd.
Printed in the U.K.

                                       14
