FINAL FIGHT
===========

When Haggar became Mayor of Metro City, he thought he’d put his street fighting days behind him for good. No 
such luck - his delectable daughter, Jessica’s, been kidnapped by the lawless Mad Gear Gang and Haggar must 
face his Final Fight!

- Simultaneous 2-player option.
- Choose from 3 different characters - all hardened streetfighters.

FINAL FIGHT™ — NOTHING HITS HARDER!


LOADING INSTRUCTIONS CBM 

64/128 Cassette
Press SHIFT and RUN/STOP keys simultaneously. Press PLAY on the cassette deck then follow on-screen prompts.

CBM 64/128 Disk
Type LOAD",8,1 and press RETURN, then follow on-screen prompts.

SPECTRUM 48/128K, +2 Cassette
Type LOAD "" and press ENTER. Press PLAY on the cassette deck. Use LOADER option on +2 computers.

AMSTRAD CPC Cassette
Press CTRL and small ENTER keys simultaneously. Press PLAY on the cassette deck. Follow on-screen prompts.

AMSTRAD CPC Disk
Type RUN"DISK and press RETURN. The game will load and tun automatically.

ATARI ST/CBM AMIGA
Insert game disk into drive and switch on computer. The game will load and run automatically.


YOUR FIGHTERS

GUY (b. 12.8.1965)
After mastering the art of Ninjitsu can attack with unequalled speed. He often catches his opponents off guard 
with his special "Off-the-wall jump".

CODY lb. 18.4.1967)
His girlfriend, Jessica, was kidnapped by the Mad Gear gang. Being an expert in martial arts he is especially 
good with knives.

HAGGAR tb.3.9.1943)
A former champion street fighter, is an expert at the BACK DROP and the PILE DRIVER after mastering skills in 
professional wrestling: He is now the mayor of Metro City and Jessica is his daughter.


SCENARIO

Battle through six breath-taking levels against the Mad Gear gang who've kidnapped Jessica in Metro City! 
Become Haggar, or one of his lethal sidekicks, Cody or Guy, and head for the streets. Use your fists and feet 
as well as Knives, Pipes, Muramashes or Masamunes. Fight in subways, seedy warehouses, wrestling rings and on 
the Underground and on trains. You'll find yourself in hand-to-hand combat with mad, bad giants and sinister 
Samurai swordsmen! Look on the bright side, though - Cody's a veteran Karate champion and Guy's one hell of 
a Ninja fighter. As for Haggar himself - he's bigger, faster and meaner than anyone alive!


HINTS AND TIPS

- As you fight your way through the dirty streets, look-out for a staircase that will lead you down to the 
  underground storeroom of the Mad Gears.

- Crush all opposition in the storeroom before continuing to the subway.

- Battle your way along the platform until the train arrives. During your journey, you will encounter several 
  suicidal attacks, be alert.

- The train stops between stations, get out and fight your way along the track, while in a dark and dripping 
  wet tunnel.

- You will then fight in an underground wrestling ring against the champion, in front of hundreds of screaming 
  Mad Gears. Stamina is the best way to success.

- When you have defeated the champion, gain extra points by smashing up the car, parked at the filling station, 
  against a time limit.

- Attack the enemy on the street just outside the restaurant then through the bar and into another blood-thirsty 
  wrestling arena, to fight more of the Mad Gears champions.

- Fight along the street against a crooked cop, he will shoot at you in order to destroy you. Therefore your 
  special techniques will be required to destroy this menacing cop.

- When crossing a catwalk in the industrial area, fight the Mad Gears while avoiding jets of flame rising from 
  below. This will lead you towards a construction lift where you will combat a magical, grenade lobbing ninja 
  commando.

- Extra points can be achieved by breaking panes of glass in a factory, against a time limit.

- Save your best combat skills as you fight past a rather odd looking statue of Liberty, for the final fight to 
  free Jessica.

- Begin fighting on the street near the hotel. Once inside, avoid falling chandeliers and search for the lift to 
  take you up to the roof garden. This is the private domain of the Mad Gears boss. Only his destruction will 
  allow you to accomplish your goal.


JOYSTICK CONTROLS

Players with fire button depressed:

		   JUMP & KICK

			|			  \     /
			|			   \   /
			|			    \ /	
			*			-----*-----
			|
			|			FLYING KICK IN
			|		       DIRECTION FACING
 
                SPECIAL MOVES FOR 
                   EACH PLAYER

Fire Button = Punch

Players without fire button pressed can walk: Left, Right, Up, Down or Diagonal.

ATARI ST /AMIGA USERS - To pick up an object ie; weapon or food stand above the object and press fire.



FINAL FIGHT ™ ©1991 CAPCOM USA.,Inc. All rights reserved. CAPCOM ® is a registered trademark of CAPCOM 
USA., INC. Manufactured and distributed under license by U.S. GOLD Ltd., Units 2/3, Holford Way, Holford, 
Birmingham, B6 7AX. Tel: 021 625 3366.

Copyright subsists on this program. Unauthorised copying, lending or resale by any means strictly prohibited.

