Forgotten Worlds

The Project 64 etext of the ~Forgotten Worlds manual~, converted to
etext by Robert Schultz <bert@ncinter.net>.

FORWOR10.TXT, November 1997, etext #319#

Readapted for the Spectrum in 2001 AD by Alessandro Grussu
http://www.ag-online.da.ru


The Forgotten Worlds Story

Many years have passed since mankind dominated the Earth.  Invaders
from another galaxy have nearly destroyed our planet in their attempt
to add it to their evil Empire. Led by Lord Bios, the alien horde has
crushed all opposition. YOU are the last hope. You must face their
assault in personal, deadly combat. Equipped with an anti-gravity
device and armed with photon gun, you will seek and destroy the
minions of the Empire.

In your attempt to overthrow the dark Lord, you will fight the
strangest and strongest creatures from around the universe. Do battle
with the lizardmen, the shapeless ones, and the fierce bronze dragon.
But you're not completely alone in your quest for freedom. You can
upgrade your weapons system at several locations scattered throughout
the lands.

FORGOTTEN WORLDS, the adventure of a lifetime!

Controlling The Game

FORGOTTEN WORLDS on the Spectrum can be operated by a joystick or the
keyboard. The player's character can maneuver in all directions by
moving the joystick in the desired direction. The character can also
fire the weapon(s) in a 360 degree arc, thereby maximizing the
offensive capabilities.

If you move the character up, down, left, or right while pressing the
fire button on the joystick, this will change the direction of his
aim.  If you wish to keep the direction of fire at one place, release
the fire button before moving the character. With experience, this
will become apparent.

[Keyboard Controls:
Q - up
A - down
O - left
P - right
SPACE - fire

Joystick: Kempston, Sinclair

Each player must press FIRE to begin. Player 1 always begins first.
Once player 1 has begun, Player 2 can join in by pressing FIRE on
another control device.]

Tips For Game Play

Look for the shops hidden among the ruins. With gathered zenny coins,
you can purchase valuable weapons and healing medicines to assist you.

Don't get comfortable in one firing position, the aliens will be
coming at you from all sides!

Each major enemy has a vital vulnerable spot. You must locate this to
destroy them.

----- Hints -----

Towards the end of level one are a set of barriers. Shoot them a few times,
then go into the top one. When you get to the end of level god, he will not
fire anything at you.
