FRANK BRUNO'S BOXING
--------------------

Game Features
* Eight firey opponents, each with their own distincive fighting style.
* Smooth-scrolling camera action, giving the best view of the fight at all
  times.
* Furious three minute rounds with 'knock-down' and 'knock out' features.
* Warm-Up and 'Autoplay' sequences.
* K.O. Meter, Best K.O. Time, Score and Bonus displayed on screen.
* Additional boxers to load from tape.
* Hall of fame.
* Endorsed by Heavy-weight Champion - Frank Bruno.

PLAY THE BIG FIST

Now, meet eight of the world's most unlikely heavyweight contenders in the
boxing simulation to beat 'em all!

1. CANADIAN CRUSHER
   CANADA
   The big, plodding, lumber-jack from Canada, with the beauty of a grizzly
   bear and the speed of an elephant.

2. FLING LONG CHOP
   JAPAN
   All the way from the land of the rising Hi-Fi is Fling Long Chop, a
   martial arts master of No-Can-Do.

3. ANDRA PUNCHEREDOV
   USSR
   Andra is a fast, dancing Russian who goes to your head faster than a
   neat glass of Vodka.

4. TRIBAL TROUBLE
   AFRICA
   Tribal means trouble for anyone, he has a temper that gets the better of
   you! Landing the punches with unnerving accuracy.

5. FRENCHIE
   FRANCE
   Frenchie may appear to be cool, but this deceptive facade hides a rather
   menacing individual, ready to make you see stars.

6. RAVIOLI MAFIOSI
   ITALY
   Ravioli is not a man to mess with. He knows all the dirty tricks, and uses
   them without a care in the world.

7. ANTIPODEAN ANDY
   AUSTRALIA
   Fed on a diet of empty larger cans, this man feels no pain. Pure
   un-interrupted punch power.

8. PETER PERFECT
   USA
   World Famous, World Champion Peter Perfect. The most neat and accurate
   boxer in history is set to drive his engine of glory all over you. Could
   anyone be a match for macho man?

Introduction
The sport of boxing is probably the most fearsome contact sport practiced
today. It holds a strange, almost sadistic fascination with sports fans around
the world. Boxing has been the subject of films, documentaries, and
controversy. If combines physical skills such as stamina, strength, courage
and endurance to produce an immensely exciting sport. Now you can experience
the fast and furious sport without risking life or limb, because Frank Bruno,
one of the World's greatest ever boxers, presents the World's Greatest
Boxing Game.

Instructions
On the first side of the cassette is the game program. To load this:
1. Ensure side A is fully rewound.
2. Press LOAD"" (Enter).
3. Press play on the cassette player.

Once the game has loaded, you will be presented with an "Attack Mode" which
consists of: The Options Page, Game Demonstration, Best K.O. Times and Frank
Bruno's Hall of Fame.

The options page allows you to select keyboard or joystick, and to start
the game.

The Game
After pressing the R key from the Options page, you will be asked to input a
three letter name. Once you have pressed enter then the game will start.

Controls
Guard Up                1               Dodge Left              U
Duck                    Q               Left Punch              I
Guard Down              A               Right Punch             O
Right Hook/Uppercut     BOTTOM ROW      Dodge Right             P

Body Blows are made by punching while Bruno's guards are down.
Head Blows are made by punching while Bruno's guards are up.
Uppercuts can be thrown while Bruno's guards are down.
Right Hooks can be thrown while Bruno's guards are up.
Right Hooks and Uppercuts can only be thrown when the K.O. indicator is
flashing. See below. Game Abort = Caps Shift/Space

Object
The object of the game is to defeat eitht boxers in succession in persuit of
the Heavyweight Championship of the World. Fighting styles of each of the
boxers are different, each one more intelligent than the last. To defeat an
opponent 'Bruno' mush achieve a 'Knock Out' by knocking him down three times
during a single three minute round, to do this Bruno must reduce his
opponent's 'Status' to zero, by avoiding the blows made by the opponent and
punching the opponent when his body or head is unprotected. By making repeated
successful blows, Bruno's Punch Power increases. The KO indicator flashes when
100% punch power is achieved, this allows you to use the Right Hook/Uppercut.

The game screen is divided in two, the top half is the score and information
board, the bottom half is a perspective view of the ring.

If you win the bout!
If you win the bout then you are issued with your own personal 'Elite Video
Boxing Association' Membership Code. You will notice in the inlay that we
have provided you with a EVBA Membership card for your own use. Write the
code in Pencil, alongside the name of the next boxer. So, if you have just
beaten the first boxer, write the code in the space next to 'Fling Long
Chop'. You may use the code to load the next boxer off tape now, or at a
later date. To load a boxer:

1. Ensure the cassette is on side B.
2. Press 'L' on the options page.
3. Enter your three letter name.
4. Enter your Membership Code (just press enter without typing anything if
   you wish to load the first boxer back in).
5. Press play on the cassette player.

The program will tell you what boxer it has found on the tape. If it finds a
boxer comes before the one it is searching for, then you should fast forward
the tape a little bit. Conversely, if it finds a boxer that comes after the
one it is searching for, then you should rewind the tape a little bit.

Your Membership Code is valid for all versions of Frank Bruno's Boxing
provided it is used with the same three letter name that you have used.

If you lose the bout!
You can rebout the current boxer whether you have won, lost or just loaded
the game. Press 'R' on the options page to do this.

ELITE SYSTEMS LIMITED, ANCHOR HOUSE, ANCHOR ROAD, ALDRIDGE, WALSALL, WEST
MIDLANDS, ENGLAND. Telex 335622 SPETEL G

(Transcribed by Robin Stuart)
