GREGORY LOSES HIS CLOCK

PUBLISHER
Pirahna

AUTHOR
Don Priestly

DESCRIPTION
An arcade adventure game, with the emphasis on adventure.

INSTRUCTIONS
Please see the inlay card text.

INLAY CARD TEXT

TIKKA TIKKA TIME EXPEDITION
Settling down for a good nights sleep, our hero Gregory finds his
alarm clock, pops it on top of the chest of drawers, and clambers
into bed for a restoring regime of kip. The first few Zeds have
hardly escaped our Gregs sleeping lips when a naughty ghost
intervenes, stealing Greg's timepiece. And this ghostie is really
wicked - it breaks the clock into five pieces and scatters them
around four weird dreamscape locations.  However will our hero
manage to wake up in the morning? Greg's got an important day at
work ahead of him. Thanks to that bad spook, Greg will never,
ever wake up to reality unless he can retrieve the parts of his
clock and get them to the nice old horologist (clock mender to
the likes of ordinary folk) As you might imagine, time is of
the essence. Greg has only three game hours in which to complete
each section of the quest and restore order to his world. So this
game is played against the clock as well as for it...

TRAVELLING THROUGH THE DREAMWORLD
Don't expect too much help here - this is meant to be a
challenging experience, after all!!!

Here are a few hints to get you going:

Wheels turn off water and open doors, providing you put them in
the right place.

Sometimes you have to leave something youve already collected
behind you when you go looking for another bit of mechanism.

Birds have more than wings.

Markers help in mazes.

A good eye for picture matching makes life livable.

Don't shoot too many things.

The best place to wake up in morning is alone in bed.

Don't ring us - just get the five bits of clock to the menders
and wake up to the ringing of the alarm bell.

CHEATS

SEQUELS/PREQUELS
None

URL

GENERAL FACTS

NOTES
The graphics style of this game is the same style that Don
Preistly uses in virtually all of his games, especially the
Trapdoor games and Flunky.
