
Gunship manual
**************

(as this is full manual for Commodore/Atari/PC version, file 
starts with summary of commands for ZX Spectrum, anyway I'm 
sure that manual be very usefull to any 'Speccy player' 
- Aleksandar Lukic, http://www.speccy.org/SpeccyTour03/)

Gunship commands - keyboard overlay. 

1= engine 1 on/off 
2= engine 2 on/off 
3= rotors 
W= weapon select 
F= drop flare decoy 
C= drop chaff decoy 
Y= pause 
J= radar jammer on/off 
K= IR jammer on/off 
I= view left 
O= view ahead 
P= view right 
Q= up slow (+shift = fast) 
A= down slow (+shift = fast) 
S= stores 
D= damage 
Z= rotate left 
X= rotate right 
space= change CRT 
N= next TADS target 
R= jettison 
M= map 
break= pause 
Ex= mode accelerate time 
Enter= stop rotation 

All the joystick is used for is up/down/left/right/fire.

PASSWORD    COUNTERSIGN
-----------------------
ACCENT      TRAMPOLINE
BILLBOARD   KICKBACK
CROMAGNON   MELODRAMA
DAKOTA      ONSTAGE
ELECTRA     VERTICAL
FOOTHOLD    INSOLENT
GRENADIER   NOCTURNE
HEDGEHOG    LOCKSMITH
IVORY       WILLOW
KNOCKOUT    PUREBRED
LOZENGE     ROMANTIC
MAZURKA     YELLOW
NEBULA      QUAKER
OVATION     UPSTAGE
PENTHOUSE   SYMPHONY
QUARTZ      ZEBRA

*********

WHAT TO DO IF MY GAME FAILS TO LOAD
In the vast majority of cases a loading problem is not a problem with
the software but either an incorrect loading procedure or a hardware
fault.

So, if my game fails to load what should I do?

1. If you have an Amstrad, Spectrum, Commodore 64, or an IBM PC
compatible, make absolutely sure you have typed in the correct loading
instructions. Just one digit typed incorrectly will prevent the game
from loading.

2. If you have followed the correct loading procedure and the game
still refuses to load, it may well be a hardware malfunction. The most
common problem is a misalignment of heads in the tape/disk drives.
This also includes the ST and Amiga. One test is to load the game on a
friends machine or ask the software store from which the game was
purchased to test the game.

3. Alternatively, it may well be that a virus has been transferred
from another game. This could only occur on Atari ST, Commodore Amiga
or IBM PC and compatible machines. Statistically, viruses seem to be
quite prevalent on the Amiga. If the problem is a virus, then the
monitor may display "Readwrite error", or "Software failure", or some
other irregular message. To eliminate the virus, a virus killer can be
purchased from any good software store. Having eliminated your virus,
make sure that any new virus cannot multiply by switching off the
computer for at least half a minute before re-booting with any other
disk you wish to use. Pirated copies of games are an incredibly
popular source of computer viruses, so it always pays to own original
software.

IN THE UNLIKELY EVENT OF THERE BEING A SOFTWARE FAULT YOU MUST RETURN
THE COMPLETE PACKAGE WITH THE RECEIPT TO THE PLACE OF PURCHASE.
UNFORTUNATELY GOODS CANNOT BE REPLACED BY MICROPROSE UNLESS PURCHASED
FROM THE COMPANY DIRECTLY. IN THE EVENT OF ANY DIFFICULTY PLEASE
CONTACT THE MICROPROSE HELPLINE, TELEPHONE NUMBER (0666) 504399


                  GUNSHIP

         The Helicopter Simulation
             OPERATIONS MANUAL
                 64H-029A
         Change 1, November 1986
    Copyright 1986 by MicroProse Software
 120 Lakefront Drive, Hunt Valley, MD 21030
              (301) 771-1151

In the early days of flying "barnstormer" pilots flew by the seat of
their pants - following roads and rivers, even dipping down to mad
roadsigns! That grand tradition of individual flying is found today
among helicopter pilots. They love getting down among the hills and
trees to do some "interesting" flying.

Just flying a helicopter is loads of fun, but hem at MicroProse we
wanted more. We wanted to fly a combat helicopter in simulated battle
conditions, All kinds of battles: from guerilla wars to a hypothetical
USA-USSR war in Europe. Pop over a hill, launch a Hellfire, dodge a
SAM, jam a ZSU's radar, then duck behind cover again. "GUNSHIP" is a
simulation of everything we wanted.

Now you can experience the danger, excitement courage, and agony of
real combat helicopter flying - without the bloodshed and suffering
that occur in real warfare. GUNSHIP portrays actual ground scales,
flight speeds and weapons systems. The AH-64A is the "highest tech"
helicopter flying today, complete with lasers, cameras, night viewers,
infra red and radarwamings, jammers, computers, composite materials,
engine signature suppressors, and a plethora of weapons. The
TADS(Target Aquisition & Designation Sight) system is a computerized
fire control system, also simulated within yourcomputer! Faithfully
reproducing the AH-64A systems, capabilities, and limitations was an
enormous undertaking, Creating GUNSHIP took much longer than we
expected.

We're sum you'll agree our time was well spent GUNSHlP is the most
detailed and realistic simulation of combat
helicopterflyingeverforhome computer. For us. it's the next best thing
to joining the US Army and flying the real aircraft So grab your
IHADSS helmet, jump into the cockpit and swing into action with our
AH-64AA Apache gunship!

Introduction
quickstart
Part I  - Operating Instructions
          Loading
          Preparing to Fly
          Cockpit & Status Panels
          A Practical Guide
          Controls
          Controls Summary
          Beginner's Tutorial I
          Beginner's Tutorial II
          After the Mission
Part II - Apache Pilot's Manual
          Aerodynamics
          Weapons & Tactics
          Military Equipment
          Regional Deployments
          Glossary
          Notes


                                QUICKSTART

BEWARE: GUNSHIP is an accurate simulation of a combat helicopter. Do
not attempt to jump in and fly by instinct Helicopters are similar to
other aircraft, but have important differences. Unless you've flown
real helicopters, read Part I ("Operating Instructions") carefully and
learn to fly using the tutorials.

1. To load GUNSHIP in your computer, read the appropriate section of
"Loading" in Part I. Get out the overlay and place it on the keyboard.

2. Skim the "Cockpit & Status Panel" and "Controls" sections to
familiarize yourselfwith the helicopter. Also glance through "A
Practical Guide to Helicopter Flying".

3. Follow the tutorials: First turn to "Beginner's Tutorial 1 -
Learning to Fly a Helicopter." Follow this step by step. You'll refer
frequently to both "Cockpit" and "Controls" sections. Then follow
"Beginner's Tutorial II - Gunnery & Defenses:  If you are still
uncertain about flying after both tutorials, continue flying the USA
training area. Refer to "A Practical Guide to Helicopter Flying" and
"Aerodynamics" for a better understanding of flight Then fly the
tutorials again.

4. Begin combat flying in Southeast Asia, just like thousands of other
American helicopter pilots. Turn to "Regional Deployments" in the back
of this manual for tips and suggestions about that region.

5. Don't Volunteer for Western Europe: Watch the risk level as you
adjust your starting options. Keep your risk low at first Above all,
avoid the 1st Line in Western Europe. The Warsaw Pact is the most
formidable enemy on this planet.



PART I
OPERATING INSTRUCTIONS
AH-64A Apache Operations Manual: 64-H-029A-1/264-H-029A-l/2

LOADING the AH-64A APACHE SIMULATION

Commodore C-64X-128 Computers
This version requires a C-64, C-64C or C-128 with a 1541 or 1571 disk
drive and a joystick. The C-128 GUNSHlP uses the C-64 emulation mode.
However, it does take advantage of the greater speed and procesing
power of the C-128 where appropriate.

1. Turn off your computer and disk drive.

2. Attach one joystick at port #2. Do NOT leave a joystick in port #1
(a joystick there can scramble your controls).

3. Turn on your disk drive. WARNING: do not leave a diak in the drive
when you turn your computer or disk drive on or off - your disk could
be damaged.

4. Remove any cartridges from your computer. GUNSHIP has a "fast load"
routine built into its software for use with tbe 1541 drive. Remove
all fast load cartridges before attempting to load tbe game.

5. Insert the GUNSHIP disk, label upward. into the disk drive. Close
the drive door latch.

6. Turn on your computer. On a C-128 the simulation begins loading
automatically. If you have a C-64, you must type tbe following:  LOAD
"*", 8, 1 and then press RETURN. After loading leave the disk in the
drive.


Apple II family Computers

This version requires an Apple II+ with 6 4K RAM, and Apple IIe (with
either 64K or 128K RAM),or an Apple IIC.The computer must have
APPLESOFT BASIC in ROM,a disk drive, the disk drive controller in slot
6 (its normal position), and a joystick.

1. Turn off your computer.
2. Plug In your joystick. GUNSHIP requires a joystick

3. Insert the GUNSHIP disk in the disk drive. label upwards, and close
the latch.

4. Turn on your computer. The simulation loads automatically. After
loading leave tbe disk in the drive.


ATARI 800 XL/XE Computers

This version requires an Atari 800 XL, 1200X, 130XE 65XE with a
diskdrive and a joystick.

1. Turn of your computer and diskdrive.
2. Remove all cartridges.
3. Plug in your joystick into port #1.
4. Turn on your disk drive.

5. Insert the GUNSHIP disk, label upwards., into tbe disk drive and
close the latch on tbe disk drive door.

6. Turn on your computer. The simulation loads automatically from
disk. After loading leave the disk in the drive.


IBM PC, PCjr, XT, and AT;
Tandy 1000, 1200 and 3000
100% PC Compatibles
This version requires an IBM compatible computer, a disk drive. and a
color monitor using either CGA (Color Graphics Adapter) or EGA
[Enhanced Graphic Adapter] graphics. A joystick is optional. but
strongly recommended.

This simulation is NOT compatible with a Hercules monochrome graphics
card or other monochrome graphics devices. The simulation does NOT use
PC DOS or MS DOS and therefore cannot use hardware or software that
requires a DOS environment.

1. Turn off your computer
2. Plug in your joystick if you are using one.

3. Insert the GUNSHlP disk, label up. into the "A" disk drive. Then
close the drive door latch.

4. Turn on your computer. The simulation loads automatically. After
loading leave the disk in the drive.


ATARI 520 ST/1040 ST
This version requires an Atari 520 or 1040 ST with a disk drive, a
color monitor, and either a mouse or a joystick. TOS can be in ROM or
loaded from disk.

1. Turn on your computer.

2. Plug in your mouse or joystick. The mouse must be plugged into port
#1 (the normal port).  The joystick must be plugged into port #2.

3. Turn on the computer.

4. TOS in ROM. All 1040's and all recently built 520's have TOS in
ROM. If you have such a machine. simply insert the GUNSHIP disk into
the disk drive. The simulation loads automatically.

4. NO TOS in ROM. If your computer is an early-version 520 ST without
TOS ROM chips, insert your Atari TOS disk into the drive. When the
desktop appears eject the TOS disk end insert the Gunship disk Press
the ESC key to display the contents of the Gunship disk When these
appear, use the mouse to point to the AUTO folder and double-click
with the left mouse button.  This folder will open and show a file
called GUNSHlP. PRG. Point to this with the mouse and double-click
again to load the game. After loading leave the disk in the drive.


Commodore Amiga
This version requires an Amiga with at least 512K RAM. A mouse or
joystick can be used.

1. Turn off your computer.

2. Plug in your mouse or joystick. The moose must be plugged into port
#1 (the normal port).  The joystick most be plugged into port #2.

3. Turn on the computer.
4. Insert the Amiga Kickstart disk into the disk drive.

5. When the "Workbench" Icon appears on the screen press the eject
button and remove the KICKSTART disk.

6. Insert the GUNSHIP disk into the disk drive. It loads
automatically. After loading leave the disk in the drive.


GUNSHIP: Special Instructions for the C64 Tape Cassette Version
GUNSHIP is a very large C64 program, designed for computers with disk
drives (the standard American practice). It has about 300k of code and
data In creating the tape cassette version, MicroProse has adjusted a
few minor details to minimize tape loading times. No essential feature
of the game has been removed. For reference the differences are
described below.

LOADING
(page 6)
To load the tape cassette version requires either a C-64 or C-l 26
computer with a cassette tape drive.

1. Turn off your computer, then remove all cartridges from the
computer.

2. Attach one joystick at port #2 Do not leave a joystick in port #1
[a joystick there can scramble your controls).

3. Insert the GUNSHIP cassette into the cassette tape drive, label
upward. This is SIDE 1 of the tape. Close the tape drive.

4. Turn on your computer. If you have a C-128, hold down the Commodore
key while turning on the computer.

5. Load Tape: hold down the Commodore key and tap the RUN STOP key.
Your C64/Cl28 will ask you to press PLAY on the tape drive. Do it. The
tape will search for GUNSHIP, report finding it, and begin loading.
Note: As in most tape cassette programs, once you press PLAY, leave it
down until some other instruction [such as REWIND] is given. The
program cannot access the tape unless PLAY is down.


PREPARING TO FLY
(page 9)
AH-64A PILOT ROSTER ("SERVICE RECORD"): The tape cassette version only
holds information on ONE pilot. If you point to "save" and press the
fire button the pilot is saved to a separate tape cassette [you cannot
save it to the game tape cassette). If you point to "RELOAD" and press
fire you can recall a pilot saved on a separate cassette. Remember,
you cannot save a pilot unless you have a blank tape to store his
service record data. NEVER attempt to save pilot data on the GUNSHIP
game tape cassette.

COCKPIT & STATUS PANELS
(page 13)
STORES STATUS DISPLAY (pg 18): This display is not available in the
tape version. Use information on the main cockpit display instead as
described in the middle of page 15. SYSTEMS DAMAGE DlSPLAY [pg 18):
This display is not available in the tape version. Use the "idiot
lights" across the top of the cockpit instead, as described on the
bottom of page 15.

AFTER THE MISSION
(page 38)
RETRY OPTION: Whenever you land shut down the engines and the rotor
stops turning, you have the option of either "retrying" the same
mission again, or continuing. If you retry, you are able to fly the
very same mission again, from the start. If you do not retry, your
mission is summarized and then your after-landing options are
presented. Note that this is different from the disk version, where
only pilots who crash while at low rank can retry.

TOP SCORES: The comparison of your score to the two all-time top
scoring missions (described in fourth paragraph) is not available in
the tape version.

SAVE PILOT: One of your replay options is to "Go on extended R&R (Save
Pilot)". This returns you to the pilot roster, where you can save your
pilot's name and record on a separate tape (see Preparing to Fly,
AH-64A Pilot Roster, above).



PREPARING TO FLY THE AH-64A APACHE

On most screens you'll see a small arrow pointer. Your joystick mouse,
and cursor control keys (depending on your computer) move the arrow.
To make a selection, move the arrow onto the picture or box and then
press the joystick fire button, mouse click button, or the return key
on the keyboard.

VEHICLE IDENITIFICATICN: Telling the good guys from the bad guys takes
practice. Examine the vehicle drawing and compare it to the drawings
in the "Military Equipment" section of this manual. Move the pointer
to the box beside the correct name and press fire/click/return.

DEFAULTS: Here you see the last mission flown: the pilot, his duty
assignment {region of the world), style of flying, and reality levels.
To change any of the defaults point to the appropriate box in the
upper left and press fire/click/return. If the defaults shown are
fine, point to "Continue" and press fire/click/return.

The combination of duty assignment (region), style, and reality
determines the overall level of risk for your next mission. The level
of risk affects your scoring, promotion, and decorations.

AH-64A PILOT ROSTER: This summarizes the "service records+" of pilots
on the disk To select a name, point to the name itself and press
fire/click/return. This highlights the name. Point to "Continue" and
press fire/click/return to return to the defaults.

To enter a new name (such as your own!), select a name you wish to
replace, then point to "Erase Pilot" and press fire/click/return. Type
the new name and press RETURN. This new name appears in the roster.
The old name iserased, permanently.

Each pilot's service record includes a list of awards, decorations,
and reprimands, followed by a number indicating the quantity of each.
The letter abbreviations are: ACM-Army Commendation Medal, AM-Air
Medal, BSV-Bronze Star, CAC-Central America Campaign Ribbon,
CMOH-Congressional Medal of Honor, DSC-Distinguished Service Cross,
KIA-Killed in Action, MEC-Middle East Campaign Ribbon, MIA-Missing in
Action, NDS-National Defense Service Medal, PH-Purple Heart, SEAC-
Southeast Asia Campaign Ribbon, SR- Service Reprimand, SS- Silver
Star, WEC- Western Europe Campaign Ribbon.

DUTY ASSIGNMENT: You can select five different areas of the world for
combat flying. Point to the badge representing the area you desire and
press fire/click/return. Point to "Continue" and press
fire/click/return to return to the defaults. Beginners should select
Flight Training in the USA and follow the two tutorials. Combat
regions are listed in order of difficulty, from Southeast Asia (the
easiest) to Western Europe (the most difficult). Regions powerfully
affect difficulty. Don't expect success in Western Europe until you do
well in the other regions.

STYLE OF FLYING SELECTION: Within a region, some areas and missions
are more dangerous than others. Here you select the level of danger
you prefer. Point to the appropriate face and press fire/click/return.

Volunteer missions, especially hazardous duty, mean you're facing
tougher, more accurate, and faster-reacting opponents. Regular
missions put you against "garden variety" Russian-trained troops with
lesser combat skills. This choice has a powerful effect on mission
difficulty.


ENEMY & REALITY SELECTION: Wherever you fly, you can select between a
"realistic" simulation and an "easy" simplified version. Point to the
boxbeside the option you prefer and press fire/click/return.

"Easy" reality levels may help you learn to fly. Beginners often
prefer "easy" landings and weather effects. However, use "realistic"
flying assoon as possible, since experienced GUNSHIP pilots find the
realistic level is actually easier to fly in combat.Enemy quality
determines the "newness" of enemy equipment. Soviet-equipped First
Line troops have modern equipment (for that region). The Second Line
rear area and allied forces use older equipment. The Third Line
reservists have obsolete equipment.

BRIEFING: Here are your flight orders. They include IMPORTANT
information you should memorize or write down. Above all, note the
password, look up the countersign in this manual and write it down.
Passwords and countersigns appear at the bottom of each page in
alphabetical order, starting on page 12. Also make a note of your
primary and secondary objectives. You'll probably want to check the
map to see where they are in relation to your bases. It's also wise to
note the wind speed and direction (only present if you picked
realistic weather conditions).

When you're through examining the orders and related information (map,
intelligence reports, and/or sick call) point to "continue" and press
fire/click/return.


NOTE: When flying "Training in the USA" duty the subsequent options
are greatly abbreviated. No intelligence report or sick call option
exists, and no reminders are necessary.


THE SECTOR MAP: This shows the entire battle area, friendly bases and
forces in white, your objectives are in violet It's purely for
reference, and to help you plan your mission.

The map coordinates are read military fashion, "right and up." That
means the first number is the horizontal scale, the second the
vertical scale. For example, 01-12 is the upper left corner.

INTELLIGENCE REPORT: This report gives additional details about enemy
forces and equipment. You may wish to read the "Military Equipment"
section about these weapons, and/or the "Weapons & Tactics" section
about how to deal with them.

SICK CALL: If you decide this mission is too difficult or dangerous,
you can go on sick call to avoid it Read the advice on the screen
carefully. As a rule, pilots decide to be "on sick call" if the
objectives are distant from friendly base and the enemies are truly
formidable. Objectives near a friendly base are always easier, since
you spend less time in "hostile" airspace.

REMINDERS: It's important that you know the password, countersign, and
both objectives (primary and secondary). Check your notes to make sure
you have the correct information. point to the appropriate box and
press fire/click/return.

ARMING: A standard armament appears here for your region. However, you
can adjust the stores on your helicopter to suit your preferences. To
add or subtract cannon ammunition (30mm HEAD), fuel, chaff, and/or
flares, point to the "+" or "-" box and press fire/click/return.
You'll see the appropriate quantity change, along with your current
weight To remove armament from the weapons wings, point to the weapon
on the wing itself and press fire/click/return. To add a new or
different armament to a wing, point to the box representing the weapon
and press fire/click/return to "pick up" the weapon. The weapon is now
attached to your pointer. Move it to the wing and fire/click/return to
release it. If there is already a weapon at that position, the new one
replaces the previous one. Weapons must be balanced. Whenever you add
or subtract a weapon to one wing, the other automatically changes too.
The wingtips carry AIM-9L Sidewinders only (anything else is too
heavy). The interior wing stations can carry any weapon. The maximum
weight figure near the bottom is the maximum takeoff weight for the
region and weather. You can never add weapons that exceed this limit.

Point to "Continue" and press fire/click/return to begin flying.
Select "Clear" to eliminate all stores from your helicopter. Press
"Sick Call" if you've got cold feet and want to back out of the
mission. Sometimes even experienced pilots do this if unfavorable
weather causes an impossibly low maximum weight on a dangerous
mission.


IMPORTANT!
KNOW YOUR PASSWORD & COUNTERSIGN!

The briefing and reminder screens (above) tell you the password for
this mission. YOU MUST KNOW THE COUNTERSIGN. At the page bottoms in
this manual you will see a password followed by a countersign. Find
the page with the briefing's password, and then write down the
countersign that follows.

When you approach any friendly heli-base, you will get a radio message
giving the password and asking for the countersign. If you do not type
in the proper countersign and press "RETURN", base defenses will
presume you are an enemy and shoot you down!


COCKPIT & STATUS PANELS of the AH-64A APACHE SIMULATOR

COCKPIT INSTRUMENTATION
The cockpit is the main control panel used in flight. You "see" the
landscape through the armored glass as you fly. A fixed crosshairs
sight aids in pitch orientation and firing FFAR unguided rockets. A
moving box (reticle) represents your IHADSS helmet gunsight (TADS).
This box changes from dark to light color. Depending on the current
accuracy of your selected weapon (dark is low accuracy, light is
higher accuracy). Below the cockpit glass are the dials, gauges and
displays of the helicopter cockpit.

System Damage Lights: (top of screen)

Main (R)otor        (F)orward Fuel Tank  Port (E)ngine       Chaff (L)auncher
Nose (O)ptics       Port (W)ing          Starboard (E)ngine  Flare (L)auncher
Forward (A)vionics  Starboard (W)ing     Aft (F)uel Tank     Tail (R)obot
Chain (G)un



AIRSPEED:This dial shows your horizontal speed through the air in
knots. A speed of 100 knots equals about 114 mph, or about 167
feet/second.

ALTIMETER: This dial shows your altitude in feet The rotary needle is
marked in tens of feet (i.e., if the needle points to "1", read it as
10 feet). The digital readout in the center shows your altitude to
thousands (left digit) and hundreds (right digit) of feet For example,
a digital readout of 13 and needle at 6 means one thousand, three
hundred, and sixty (1 360) feet.

ATIlTUDE & ARTlFICIAL HORIZON: This ball-gauge shows your pitch (nose
up or down) and your roll (left or right). The blue part represents
the sky, the black part the ground.


CRT DISPLAY: This small display screen has three separate modes of
operation. The TADS Target Mode shows a zoom-camera view of the target
on which TADS is "locked": The display also shows the range to target
(in kilometers) in the upper left corner and the zoom magnification in
the upper right For example, "1.2" and "x32" indicates the target is
1.2 kilometers (1200 meters) away and that your CRT view is magnified
32 times.

The Map Mode shows a small detail of the large sector map. This detail
is centered on your helicopter.

The only exception is when your helicopter is flying near or along the
edge of the combat area. The Radio Message Mode shows a radio message
you just received. Once a message is displayed, it disappears. The
display does not "remember" previous messages.


CRT PROMPT: This line prompts you whenever new information is
available. For example, when a radio message arrives, "RADIO MSG"
appears hem.

"TARGET" means a new potential target is present - you can use the
TADS to find the new target. If your TADS is locked on a target, the
name of that target appears here. Once TADS is locked onto a target
and displaying its type, the "TARGET" message no longer appears, even
if another target is available.


ENGINE & ROTOR GAUGES: The left and right yellow strips show the RPMs
of the port (left) and starboard (right) engines. The center yellow
strip shows the main rotor RPM (revolutions per minute).

FUELGAUGE: The two yellow strips titled "F" show the amount of fuel
remaining in the forward and aft tanks The forward tank is the left
gauge, the aft tank is the right gauge.

HEADING & COURSE INDICATORS: The white arrow represents your current
heading (facing), and always remains centered. The green arrow
represents your current course. Normally it is aligned with the white
arrow, but will shift left or right if you're skidding sideways. The
red arrow beneath represents the course to your current destination.
When the green, red and white arrows are super-imposed, you are on
course.

INFRARED (IR) WARNING & JAMMING LIGHTS: The "I" warning light turns
red whenever an infra red (IR) signature weapon is approaching your
helicopter. If you turn on your IR jammer, the neighboring light turns
green while the jammer is running. If the jammer is successful, the
red warning light turns off. There are no enemy IR warning. IR
searching devices, and therefore no flashing red IR warning.


INS DESTINATION INDICATOR (INS = Inertial Navigation System): This
digital readout indicates the course to your current destination. When
the INS readout matches the digital compass readout, you are on
course.


RADAR WARNING & JAMMING LIGHTS: The "R" warning light flashes red
whenever enemy search radar "sweeps" over your helicopter. When enemy
tracking (firing) radar for either guns or missiles locks onto you,
the light turns solid red. If you turn on your radar jammer, the
neighboring light turns green while the jammer is running. If the
jammer is successful, the solid red warning light turns off.

Note: Your jammer cannot discourage radar searches, so flashing red
warnings may continue even if your jammer is successful in stopping a
tracking (firing) radar.


ROTARY & DIGITAL COMPASS: The needle on this compass indicates your
current heading, with a digital readout directly below. Note that the
compass shows the heading your helicopter faces. During a sideways
skid or backwards flight your actual course is different.

ROTOR DISENGAGED WARNING LIGHTS: This light shows red if the rotor is
disengaged (i.e., spinning freely, unconnected to the engines). The
light is off when the rotor is engaged.

STORES SELECTION: The AH-64 Apache can carry up to six different types
of  dispensable stores (offensive and defensive expendables). Each has
a different colored light, with the number of "units of fire" shown
beneath (a unit of fire is how often you can use that.item before you
run out). Inactive stores are unlighted. Only one offensive weapon can
be armed at a time. The weapon currently ready is lighted. Offensive
weapons can include:

  AIM-9L Sidewinder air-to-air guided missiles
  2.75" FFAR unguided air-to-ground rockets
  AGM-114A Hellfire air-to-ground guided missiles
  30mm Chain Gun Cannon (in 20-round bursts)

Defense stores light up when used, The light remains on as long as the
defense is functioning (about 10-20 seconds). Defensive stores can
include:

  Flare decoys to use against IR-guided weapons
  Chaff decoy to use against radar-guided weapons

As a point of information; each defensive store unit of fire is a
group of three cartridges.

SYSTEMS DAMAGE LIGHTS: These lights show the status of major systems
on board your helicopter. A green light means the system is
functioning correctly, a colored light means the system is
malfunctioning. Reading from left to right, the systems are:

  R  main rotor
  O  nose optics (controls TADS)
  A  forward avionics bay (gauges)
  G  chain gun (30mm cannon)
  F  forward fuel tank
  W  port weapons wing
  W  starboard weapons wing
  E  port engine
  E  starboard engine
  F  aft fuel tank
  ** Aft avionics bay (jammers)
  L  chaff decoy launcher
  L  flare decoy launcher
  R  tail rotor (controls rotation)


THREAT DISPLAY: This screen shows nearby enemy weapons that threaten
your helicopter. Red dots are enemy guns and launchers tracking or
firing on your helicopter. White dots are missiles in flight This
includes both enemy missiles AND your missiles. A red-and-white
flashing dot is an enemy helicopter.  The top of the threat display
represents your heading (i.e., "ahead"). The threat display operates
at two ranges: long and short Normally the display shows "long" range
with two concentric circles. The inner circle shows local enemies
(closer than 3 kilometers), the outer circle distant enemies (who are
generally beyond your maximum visibility).  If an enemy missile or
helicopter approaches within a few hundred meters, the threat display
automatically switches to "short range" while the threat is close.
This aids you in maneuvering against enemy helicopters, and/or to
evade missiles.

TORQUE GAUGE: The two yellow strips titled "T" show the amount of
torque in the port (left) and starboard (right) jet turbine engines.
This is proportional to the collective control and rotor lift The
higher you set the collective, the higher the torque, and the greater
the lift.

VSI (Vertical Speed Indicator): This dial shows the rate you are
changing altitude (ascending or descending). If the needle is
horizontal, you are maintaining a constant altitude. If the needle
dips downward, you're descending toward the ground; if it points
upward, you're ascending. The dial is marked in thousands of feet per
minute. For example, if the needle points down at "1", then you are
descending at 1000 feet per minute.



SECTOR MAP

You can "look away" from the cockpit view to a large sector map. This
map shows the local combat or training area, including all major
terrain features, friendly troops, installations and your objective.
Enemy roops and installations appear only as you spot them using the
TADS gunsight Enemy helicopters never appear on the map. They move too
quickly for accurate marking. Remember that maps are never 100%
accurate. Troop and base positions are especially prone to error.

STILL IN FLIGHT: You are still in flight while examining this map. Be
sure to look up periodically. Otherwise you might fly into a mountain
or come under attack. It's wise to hover in a safe place if you spend
long periods examining this map.

INS CURSOR (INS = Inertial Navigation System): The white crosshairs on
this map represents your current destination. Move the joystick to
move the cross-hairs. When you return to the cockpit the INS
indicators will help you fly to this destination.

GRID COORDINATES: The map uses a military grid coordinate system. To
describe any position, read "right and up": That is, the first two
digits are from the horizontal scale, the last two from the vertical
scale. Therefore, 01-01 is the lower left corner,01-12 is the upper
left corner, 12-01 is the lower right corner, and 12-12 is the upper
right corner.

ACCELERATED TIME: The accelerated time option is available only while
viewing the sector map. Time passes at double the normal rate, thus
halving your flying time between points.


MAP TERRAIN SYMBOLS include the following:

  ------  Road


  /\  /\  Stream
    \/  \


  ##      Building
  ##

  ###     Hill
  ## |
 ##__|

  ___
 |   |    Cultivated Area (Field, Rice Paddy, Plantation, etc.)
 |___|


MAP TROOP SYMBOLS are in white for friendly forces, red for enemy, and
purple for objectives.

  \/      Infantry on foot and/or in foxholes
  /\


  _|_     Armored vehicle (tank personnel carrier, etc.)
   |


  ##      Bunker (made of earth, steel and/or concrete)
  ##

    \     Anti-aircraft (AA) gun sites or vehicle
    /\
   _|_


   |      Surface-to-air missile (SAM) vehicle
  _|_


  ___
 |  #|    Helicopter Base
 |___|


   _
  / \     Supply depot
  \_/


  |\      Headquarters
  |/
  |
  |


STORES AND DISPLAY

This console displays the stores on your helicopter Status lights are
green if the system is functioning correctly, yellow if damaged, red
if destroyed. The view of the helicopter on the left side of the
console shows each system appropriately colored.

STILL IN FLIGHT: You are still in flight while examining this display.
Be sure to look up periodically. Other-wise you might fly into a
mountain or come under attack It's wise to hover in a safe place if
you spend long periods examining this display.

30mm HEDP: Ammunition for the 30mm Chain Gun cannon. It uses HEDP
(high explosive dual purpose) ammunition that is effective against all
targets except bunkers which it can destroy only occasionally. The
number indicates the actual number of rounds left (Each cannon burst
is 20 rounds, therefore with 1200 pounds you have 60 units of fire.)

FORE FUEL: This is the 156-gallon forward fuel tank.

AIM-9L: These are air-to-air "Sidewinder" infra red guided missiles.

AGM-114A: These are air-to-ground "Hellfire" laser-guided missiles.
The hellfire has an armor-piercing warhead for use against vehicles
and bunkers.

2.75" FFAR: These are air-to-ground unguided rockets. The FFAR has a
high explosive warhead for use against infantry, AA gun sites and
installations.

AFT FUEL: This is the 220-gallon rear fuel tank.

CHAFF: This is the number of chaff decoy cartridges in the tail-boom
launchers. Decoys are launched in groups of three.

FLARES: This is the number of flare decoy cartridges in the tail-boom
launchers. Decoys are launched in groups of three.


SYSTEMS DAMAGE

This console displays the major systems on your helicopter. The
indicator lights show green if the system is functioning correctly,
yellow if damaged, red if destroyed. The view of the helicopter on the
left side of the console shows each system appropriately colored.

AFT AVIONICS BAY: This compartment contains the INS navigation
computers, and the IR and radar jammers. Damage can make some of this
equipment erratic or unreliable; destruction could eliminate it all.

AFT FUEL TANK: This is the rear 220-gallon fuel tank. Damage often
causes fuel leaks. If the tank is destroyed all fuel is lost and the
helicoptermay explode.

ANTI-TORQUE (TAIL) ROTOR: This rotor keeps the helicopter from
spinning uncontrollably. If the tail rotor is damaged the helicopter
may wobble or rotate, making flight control difficult. If the tail
rotor is destroyed the helicopter spins out of control.

CHAFF & FLARE LAUNCHER: The chaff and flare decoy launchers are housed
in the tail boom. If a launcher is damaged some or all decoy
cartridges may not function correctly. If a launcher is destroyed all
cartridges are lost.

FORWARD AVIONICS BAY: This compartment contains computers and
monitoring equipment for flying the helicopter. Damage or destruction
can cause the strip gauges and/or round dials to disappear or freeze.

FORWARD FUEL TANK: This tank contains up to 156 gallons of fuel.
Damage often causes fuel leaks. If the tank is destroyed all fuel is
lost and the helicopter may explode.

30mm CHAINlGUN: This is the automatic cannon mountedbeneaththe nose.
If the cannon isdamaged it may fire erratically; if destroyed it
cannot fire at all.

MAIN ROTOR: This keeps your helicopter airborne. Damage causes the
helicopter to vibrate and wobble while flying. If the rotor is
destroyed, or a damaged rotor comes apart, the helicopter will crash.

NOSE OPTICS: This is the heart of the TADS gunsight system. Damage can
cause the TADS gunsight to work erratically. Loss of the nose optics
destroys TADS, making it impossible to fire accurately.

STARBOARD & FORT WINGS: All rockets and missiles are mounted on these
weapons wings. Damage causes the weapons to function erratically; if
destroyed the weapons on the wing are lost.

STARBOARD & FORT ENGINES: Normally the rotor is powered by both
engines combined. However, the helicopter can fly with one engine out.
If an engine is damaged or destroyed it automatically shuts down and
cannot be restarted until repaired (this minimizes the risk of fire or
explosion).



A PRACTICAL GUIDE TO FLYING HELICOPTERS


AN INTRODUCITION TO HELICOPTER CONTROLS

When learning to fly use this description in conjunction with the
section "Beginner's Tutorial 1 - Learning to Fly a Helicopter": See
"Aerodynamics" for a more precise and detailed discussion of
controlling helicopter flight

BASIC CONCEPT'S: The two main flight controls are the cyclic joystick
and the collective. The cyclic joystick controls the pitch ("nosing"
up and down) and roll ("leaning" left or right) of the helicopter. The
collective changes the angle of attack of the rotor blades (see
"Aerodynamics" for details). This changes the lifting force of the
blades.

The cyclic joystick is controlled with your joystick except on
computers using mouse control (where the mouse can move the cyclic
joystick). Keyboard control of the cyclic joystick is available on the
IBM PC.

The collective is controlled from the keyboard. On computers with a
mouse, the mouse can be used to move the collective up and down as
desired.

Pushing the cyclic joystick forward pitches the helicopter downward
("nose down"). This causes the helicopter to gain forward speed. The
helicopter will NOT dive until it reaches a steep pitch downward, then
it dives like a normal aircraft.


Pulling the cyclic joystick back pitches the helicopter upward. If the
helicopter's pitch is upwards (the crosshairs are above the horizon)
the helicopter will go backwards. Pitching upward does not necessarily
mean you will climb!

A common mistake of novices is to assume that the harder they pull
back on the cyclic, the faster they will climb. Instead of climbing
fast they end up flying backwards! Watch the crosshair/horizon
position to avoid this error.


Pushing the cyclic joystick left or right rolls the helicopter in that
direction. At low speeds (under 40 knots) the helicopter skids
sideways. At faster speeds it performs a banking turn like an
aircraft. In either case, the further you roll, the more your lift
decreases. Novices in level flight are often surprised by the loss in
altitude as they roll left or right.

Moving the collective up increases the amount of lift in the rotor. If
you are in level flight the higher collective causes you to ascend.
The torque will increase as you raise the collective. When torque
reaches the maximum value on the gauge you are at maximum lift.

Moving the collective down decreases the amount of lift in the rotor.
If you are in level flight, the lower collective causes you to
descend. The torque decreases as you lower the collective. Except in
unusual conditions, you cannot maintain level flight, much less
ascend, if torque is below 50%.

Anti-torque (tail) Rotor Controls: These controls function only if the
helicopter is moving very slowly (just a few knots) or hovering Each
tap on rotate left speeds up the tail rotor and causes the nose to
swing left Each tap on rotate right slows down the rotor and causes
the nose to swing right. Tap stop rotation to return the tail rotor to
normal speed, ending all rotation.


EASY vs. REALISTIC FLIGHT

When you start GUNSHIP, one of the reality options is a choice between
"easy" simplified flight and "realistic" flight. MicroProse recommends
realistic flight, because once you learn its controls are more
flexible and useful, especially at high speeds. However if realistic
flying is too frustrating, try easy flight instead.


EASY FLIGHT: Here neither the pitch, roll, altitude nor airspeed of
the helicopter has any effect on lift. This means that regardless of
how you maneuver the cyclic joystick, lift is unaffected. Power dives
are prohibited.

The collective is the only control that affects liftin easy flight.
Anytime you want to add lift (to climb, slowyour descent, etc.) tap
the collective up fast or slow, as appropriate. Anytime you want to
reduce lift (to slow your ascent, begin or increase descent, etc.) tap
the collective down fast or slow, as appropriate.


REALISTIC FLIGHT: Here the pitch, roll, altitude, and airspeed affect
lift as in a real helicopter. Ground Cushion Effect: At altitudes of
25' or less you gain a little extra lift at low speeds. The lift
gained varies with altitude, and disappears entirely if you're flying
too fast. Translational Lift: At speeds of 30 to 90 knots you gain
considerable extra lift. The amount varies with the speed.


Roll & Lift: With any significant amount of roll, the helicopter loses
some lift. The lift loss increases as the helicopter rolls further
left or right.

Altitude: At higher altitudes you have less lift due to the thinner
air. The lift loss increases as you get higher and higher. This loss
is only noticeable above 1,000 feet. Among other things, the use of
realistic flight means that at high speed you can fly the helicopter
not unlike an airplane. A slight pitch up slows the helicopter and
causes a climb (by reducing speed into the 30-90 knot area for maximum
trans-lational lift), while a steep pitch down puts the helicopter
into a fast power dive.


INTRODUCTION TO HELICOPTER FLIGHT

This section gives a rudimentary view of common concepts in helicopter
flight. For a more complete and detailed description of how and why
helicopters fly, see the "Aerodynamics" section.

LEVEL FLIGHT FORWARD: In level flight the helicopter is pitched down
("nose down"). The greater the pitch the faster the forward flight.
Note that in forward flight the crosshairs are always below the
horizon line. The VSI gauge is horizontal (reading zero), indicating
flight is level. In combat flying, typical level flight speed is 100
to 150 knots.

POWER DIVE: In a power dive the helicopter is pitched down steeply.
The crosshairs are significantly below the horizon line, and the VSI
gauge needle is pointing downward. Power dives usually require speeds
greater than 160 knots.

FORWARD CLIMB: When climbing in forward flight, the helicopter is
travelling slower than normal (pitch is still present, but smaller
than normal), or the collective control (and engine torque) is higher
than normal, or both. The VSI gauge needle is pointing upward. Forward
climbs are easiest at speeds of 30 to 90 knots.

HOVER: Here the helicopter is truly level, with no pitch down or up.
Note that the crosshairs are on the horizon line and airspeed is zero
(needle is vertical). The collective is adjusted so the VSI gauge is
horizontal (zero). From a hover a helicopter can ascend straight
upwards or descend straight downwards by changing the collective.

BACKWARDS FLIGHT: When flying backwards the helicopter is pitched
upwards Note that the crosshairs are above the horizon - which only
occurs when flying backwards. The airspeed gauge shows the speed
backwards. Depending on the speed and amount of collective, the
helicopter could be ascending, flying level, or descending while
moving backwards.

SKID SIDEWAYS: This is only possible at low speeds (under 40 knots) or
when hovering. The cyclic joystick is moved left or right to roil the
helicopter. Due to a lack of airspeed, the helicopter skids left or
right without forward motion. Unless the collective is
adjusted'appropriateiy, a skidding helicopter loses some lifting
power.

ROTATE LEFT OR RIGHT: This is only possible at extremely low speeds or
when hovering. The anti-torque (tail or "rudder" controls) rotates the
helicopter left or right. Rotation does not affect airspeed or VSI.
The cyclic joystick and collective are not used when rotating.


CONTROLS ON THE AH-64A APACHE SIMULATOR

FLIGHT CONTROLS: This section defines how each control works. Do not
use this section as a guide to flying a helicopter. To learn to fly,
follow "Beginner's Tutorial #1 - Learning to Fly a Helicopter'.

THE KEYBOARD OVERLAY: An overlay appropriate to your computer keyboard
is included with the simulation. The control placement is designed for
use with this overlay - don't lose it!  Note: Computers sometimes
misread multiple key inputs. Unless otherwise indicated, do not press
two keys simultaneously. Do not push the joystick while holding a key.
Pushing the joystick while holding a key may cause weird effects on
C64/C128 computers.

CYCLIC JOYSTICK: Pushing forward pitches down the helicopter ("drops
the nose"). Pulling back pitches up the helicopter ("raises the
nose"). Pushing left or right rolls the helicopter in that direction
("tilts" the rotor and body left or right). A pitch below horizontal
moves the helicopter forward. A large pitch down causes a power dive.
Pitch up above horizontal moves the helicopter backward. Rolling left
or right at low speed causes a skid (or "sideslip") left or right. At
medium and high speeds it causes a banking turn left or right. The
artificial attitude and horizon indicator shows the current pitch and
roll of the helicopter.

Summary:         Forward = pitch down ("nose down")
For C64/C128    Backward = pitch up ("nose up")
                   Right = roll right (bank or skid right)
                    Left = roll left (bank or skid left)

COLLECTIVE: This control can be moved up fast (increases lift by large
amounts) or down slowly (decreases lift by small amounts). When you
raise or lower the collective, the engine torque changes
appropriately. To move the collective a large amount, tap it
repeatedly and quickly. Lift keeps the helicopter airborne. If you
start in level flight or hover, then increase lift, the helicopter
ascends. If you start level and decrease lift, the helicopter
descends.

Summary:        F1 = up fast
For C64/C128    F3 = up slow
                F5 = down slow
                F7 = down fast

ANTI-TORQUE (TAIL) ROTOR: These function only when hovering or moving
extremely slowly (just a few knots). Tap rotate left to swing the nose
left. Tap rotate right to swing the nose right Multiple taps on the
key increase the rate of rotation. Tap stop rotation to eliminate all
rotation.

Summary:           CRSR up/down = rotate left
for C64/C128    CRSR left/right = rotate right
                         RETURN = stop rotation

FORT or STARBOARD ENGINE ON/OFF: Tap the appropriate key to turn on
(if currently off) or turn off (if currently on) each engine. You must
turn off the engines to finish your flight. If an engine is damaged or
destroyed it turns off automatically. You cannot restart the engine
until it is repaired.

Summary:        1 = port engine on/off
for C64/C128    2 = starboard engine on/off

ROTOR ENGAGE/DISENGAGE: Tap this key to either engage the rotor (cause
the engines to turn the rotor), or disengage the rotor (cause the
rotor to spin freely, unconnected to the engines). When the rotor is
disengaged, the collective is automatically "bottomed" (dropped to
zero).

Summary:
for C64/C128   3 = rotor engage/disengage


VIEWING CONTROLS

CHANGE CRT: The CRT has three display modes. Each tap on this key
switches the CRT to the next mode. These modes are:

(1) TADS target mode
(2) Map mode
(3) Radio message mode

If no target is ahead of the helicopter, the TADS target mode does not
appear. If no new radio message is available, the radio mode does not
appear. If neither a target nor a radio message is available, then the
CRT is always in map mode.

Summary:                Space Bar = change CRT
for C64/C1 28

MAP: Tap this key to see the full sector map. You continue flying. so
beware of flying into something while examining this display. Tap this
key again to return to the standard cockpit view.

Summary:                Z = map
for C64/C128

STORES: Tap this key to see the stores display. It shows the status of
systems with stores, including the amounts remaining You continue
flying, so beware of flying into something while examining this
display. Tap this key again to return to the standard cockpit view.

Summary:                Commodore logo = stores
for C64/C128


DAMAGE: Tap this key to see the systems display. It shows each system
and whether it's functional, damaged, or destroyed. You continue
flying, so beware of flying into something while examining this
display. Tap this key again to return to the standard cockpit view.

Summary:                SHIFT (left side) = damage
for C64/C1 28

VIEW: The view center key shows your view directly ahead. The view
left key shows your view diagonally ahead to the left The view right
key shows your view diagonally ahead to the right Due to the engines,
transmission, and rotor shaft your rearward view is blocked. Note that
the crosshairs are present only on the center view.

Summary:               # = view left [ British Pound ]
for C64/C128    CLR HOME = view center
                INST DEL = view right


COMBAT CONTROLS


GO TO TADS TARGET MODE If the CRT is not displaying a TADS target, but
the prompt "TARGET" is showing, tap the fire button to switch the CRT
to TADS. You can also use the standard Change CRT control.

NEW TADS TARGET: Tap this key to move the TADS gunsight box from one
target to another, showing the new target in the CRT. If no other
targets are present directly ahead TADS remains on the original
target.


Summary:                SHIFT (right side) = new TADS target
for C64/C128

WEAPONS: Tap the appropriate key to select one of the four possible
weapons: AIM-9L Sidewinder missiles, 2.75" FFAR rockets, AGM-114A
Hellfire missiles, or the 30mm cannon.

Summary:        4 = AIM-9L Sidewinder missiles
for C64/C128    5 = 2.75" FFAR rockets
                6 = AGM-114A Hellfire missiles
                7 = 30mm cannon

FIRE: Tap the fire button on the cyclic joystick to fire the weapon
currently selected. Each tap fires one missile (Sidewinder or
Hellfire), a pair of rockets, or a burst of 20 cannon rounds.

Summary:                 joystick fire button = fire
for C64/C128

DROP CHAFF or FLARE DECOY: Tap the appropriate key to release the
appropriate decoy. The cockpit indicator remains lighted as long as
the decoy is functioning.

Summary:        9 = drop chaff decoy
for C64/C128    - = drop flare decoy

RADAR or IR JAMMER ON/OFF: Tap the appropriate key to turn on (if
currently off) or off (if currently on) the jammer. When the radar
jammer is running you see a green light beside the "R" warning light
When the IR jammer is running you see a green light beside the "I"
warning light.

Summary:        0 = radar jammer on/off
for C64/C128    + = IR jammer on/off

JETTISON STORES: To jettison all ammunition for a particular weapon
hold down the select weapon key and tap Jettison. This dumps all the
Sidewinders, rockets, or Hellfires, depending on which weapon you
select. For example, to jettison all your FFAR rockets in the c64/cl28
version, hold down the "5" key and tap "RESTORE'.

Summary:        4 [+] RESTORE = jettison Sidewinders
for C64/C128    5 [+] RESTORE = jettison 2.75" FFAR
                6 [+] RESTORE = jettison Hellfires


SIMULATION CONTROLS


ACCELERATED TIME: This key doubles the speed of time, thus shortening
flight time from one point to another. This function works ONLY if you
are viewing the sector map. It automatically turns off when you return
to the standard cockpit view.

Summary:                Left Arrow = accelerate on/off
for C64/C128

PAUSE: This key freezes the simulation. Tap any key to resume the
simulation.

Summary:                RUN STOP = pause
for C64/C128

RESET: Hold down these keys to restart the simulation. On the C64/C128
hold down the RUN STOP key and then tap RESTORE. In effect you are
"jettisoning" the entire mission.

Summary:                RUN STOP [+] RESTORE = reset
for C64/Cl28



ANSWER THE RADIO!

When you see the prompt "MESSAGE'* above the CRT, tap the Change CRT
once to read the incoming radio message. Ignoring messages can be
detrimental to your health!

PASSWORD & COUNTERSIGN: As you approach your friendly base, you will
get a radio message. It's VITAL that you read and answer this message!

Tap Change CRT to display the message on the CRT. You will be radioed
the password and asked for the countersign. You must type the proper
countersign at the keyboard and press "RETURN': Passwords and
corresponding countersigns are listed (alphabetically) at the bottom
of selected pages in this manual. Look up the countersign and type it
onto the screen. Press RETURN when you are done. If you don't, your
base will assume you're hostile and shoot you down!




Controls Summary I

Category        Action          C64/C128

Cyclic          Pitch down      Stick forward
                Pitch up        Stick back
                Roll left       Stick left
                Roll right      Stick right

Collective      Up fast         F1
                Up slow         F3
                Down slow       F5
                Down fast       F7

Anti-torque     Rotate right    Horizontal cursor
(tail) rotor    Rotate left     Vertical cursor
                Stop Rotation   RETURN


View            View Left       # [ British Pound ]
                View Forward    CLRHOME
                View Right      INSTDEL


Engines         Port on/off        1
                Starboard on/off   2
                Rotoreng./diseng.  3

Weapons         Sidewinder      4
                2.75" FFAR      5
                Hellfire        6
                30mm cannon     7

Fire            Fire weapon     Stick button

Jettison        (with weapon)   (weapon) and RESTORE

Counter-        Chaff decoy     9
Measures        Flaredecoy      -
                Radarjammer     0
                IR jammer       +

Viewing Other   Map             z
Displays        Damage          [left] shift
                Stores          Commodore

CRT             Change CRT      space bar

TADS            New TADS Target   [right] shift

Simulation      Accelerated Time  left arrow
                Pause             RUN STOP
                Reset             RUN STOP and RESTORE


BEGINNERS TUTORIAL 1 - Learning to fly a helicopter

This tutorial teaches you how to take off, control the helicopter in
basic flight maneuvers, and land again. Refer to "Cockpit & Status
Panels" to understand what's appearing on the screen. Refer to
"Controls" and the keyboard overlay to find the appropriate controls.
Glance over "A Practical Guide to Helicopter Flying" for additional
insights and illustrations.

This tutorial is for use with the "realistic" flight mode, not the
"easy" flight mode. MicroProse recommends that you learn and fly in
the realistic mode from the start (you'll appreciate the advantages
later). You can always "fall back" on the easy mode if the realistic
mode becomes too frustrating.

The second tutorial will cover your weapons and defenses. For more
detail about how a helicopter flies and how to perform advanced
tactical maneuvers, see the "Aerodynamics" and "weapons & Tactics"
sections.

WARNING - DON'T OVERCONTROL: Helicopter controls are SLUGGISH (ask any
helicopter pilot!). That is, they react slowly. Even a frisky
thoroughbred like the Apache takes one to two seconds to respond to
your control movement. Therefore, just tap a key and see what happens.
When using the joystick, move it a little, then let it go. The most
common error in flying is to overcontrol by pulling hard on the stick
or pressing too long and hard on a key.

In short, be gentle with the controls. After each control movement
watch for the result before you do anything else. Numerous fast,
radical control movements will produce incomprehensible result! and
probably a crash!

STARTING: Take the vehicle identification test, enter your name on the
pilot roster, and make sure the region is set to "Training in the USA"
duty assignment. Reality defaults should be set to "Realistic Flying":
"Easy Landing" and "Easy Weather." Read the briefings and armament
options, but don't bother to change them. See "Preparing to Fly" for
details on how to control the starting options.

PAUSE WHILE LEARNING: As you work through the tutorial, tap the Pause
key whenever you want to read about the next maneuver or explanation.
Then tap any key to resume, try the maneuver, then pause again as you
read the next part of the tutorial, etc.

ATTACKS: Don't worry about enemy attacks and firing while learning to
fly. In training situations the enemy always fires "blanks" - you
cannot be damaged or destroyed by enemy fire. On your first training
flights you should ignore enemy activity. In the next tutorial you'll
learn how to respond to enemy attacks, and how to hit targets.

POWER UP: Turn on the port and starboard engines by tapping Port
Engine On/Off and Starboard Engine On/Off. Wait until the engine RPM
strip gauges climb to normal (about the 80% point). Then tap Rotors
Engage/Disengage once.

The rotor engaged warning light, previously red, should turn off.
You'll hear the rotors come up to speed. Wait until the middle strip
gauge (rotor RPM) climbs to normal (slightly above the engin e RP M
levels).

CLIMB TO A HOVER: No w repeatedly tap Collective Up Fast. Watch the
torque rise as you "raise" the collective. Note that if you "lower"
the collective, the torque drops. Once the torque reaches 75% use the
Collective Up Slow key until you rise off the ground (at a bout 80-95%
torque, depending on how close your weight is to the maximum). You
should be hovering at about 12 feet altitude.

ROTATING IN A HOVER: Tap the Rotate Right once. Your helicopter begins
to rotate to the right Tap Stop Rotation once and you'll stop turning.
Tap the Rotate Left to rotate in that direction. If you tap either
rotation key repeatedly, the helicopter rotates faster in that
direction. You can only use rotation when you are moving just a few
knots, or stationary.

Now stop the rotation. You're ready to begin flying.

FORWARD FLIGHT: Add a little more collective up slow. As you begin
climbing push forwar d lightly on the cyclic joystick to "pitch down"
the helicopter. You'll begin to move forward. At abou t 30 knot s
you'll begin to climb. You can see this on your altimeter (upper right
dial) and you r VSI (lower right dial) gauges. This is because forward
motion in a helicopter adds extra lift (termed "translational lift"),
especially at 30-90 knots.

The further you pitch down, the more your speed increases. As your
speed exceeds 100 knots , translational lift decreases. The VSI gauge
will move toward the negative end of the scale. More pitch downward
will push you into a power dive at 160-200+ knot speeds.


LEVEL FLIGHT: Move th e joystick forward or back until the airspeed
gauge reads 100 to 150 knots. Now look at the VSI. If you're
descending (the needle is below horizontal) add some Collective Up
Slow until the needle is on "0" (horizontal).

Alternately, if you're ascending, put in some Collective Down Slow.
When the VSI needle is horizontal (reading zero), you are in level
flight.


Remember, due to the slow responses of helicopter controls, it's easy
to over-correct and put in too much collective. This results in you
"chasing the needle': After each change in the collective, wait a
second or two for the VSI needle to stabilize.

CHANGING ALTITUDE When flying level at l00-150 knots, the easiest way
to descend is to push the cyclic joystick-forward (pitch down) into a
power dive. As you approach the altitude you desire, gently pull the
cyclic joystick back (pitch up) until the VSI again stabilizes at zero
(needle is horizontal). Similarly, the easiest way to ascend is to
pitch up slightly reducing your airspeed to 50-100 knots. When you
reach the desired altitude, pitch down again until the VSI stabilizes.

This technique of flying is not unlike an airplane. You can change
altitude without disturbing the collective. A second way to change
altitude, applicable ata n y speed, is to raise or lower the
collective. When you reach the new altitude, input an equal and
opposite amount of collective to regain level flight (VSI ofzero).
This technique is the only way to change altitude from a hover.

Regardless of which technique you use, don't try to control the
helicopter by constant "fiddling" with the collective. Learn to "feel"
the right collective setting then fly with your cyclic joystick Don't
expect to gain this ability-on the first flight. Be patient After a
number of flights and landings you'll find collective adjustments come
naturally - just like a real helicopter pilot.

LOW ALTITUDE TURBULENCE: While flying under 100', you may feel air
turbulence. You will tend to bounce up and down, or sometimes roll
from side to side. Air turbulence and "wind shears" vary with your
speed and your distance from the ground: the faster and lower you fly.
the-more difficult it-is to keep the craft under control.

TURNING: Returnto level flight at 100-l 50 knots. Nextpush the stick
left slightly and release it Your helicopter rollsintoa banking
leftturn. As you turn, observe the change in your digital heading
readout (in the lower left of the cockpit display, just under the
compass). If you continue to push the stick left and bank into a steep
turn, you'll lose some lift Notice that your altitude is dropping and
the VSI is below horizontal. If you roll back to the right and level
out, you'll return to level flight.

To maintain your altitude in a steep bank(important if you're flying
low) add a bit of Collective Up Slow just before you start to turn,
then put in a bit of Collective Down Slow just before you come out of
it Change the collective first because the collective controls react
more slowly than the cyclic joystick.

NAVIGATION: Tap the Map key to see the full sector map. Your objective
is to find your way home to base! Move the crosshair cursor to the
central white helibase, then switch back to your cockpit view. Quite
probably your heading and the INS heading are different Make a banking
turn toward the INS heading until the two numbers match. Notice that
the INS arrowhead marker below your own course arrowhead will also
match. You're on course, flying back to base.Descend until you're in
level flight at 50 to 100 feet altitude. It's easier to learn to land
if you come in slow and low, although "officially" a constant descent
is preferred by air controllers.

LANDING: As you approach the base it first appears as an outline on
the horizon. Reduce your speed to 60 knots by pulling back slightly on
the cyclic joystick. You'll need to put in some collective down slow
to maintain your 50' altitude. Now wait until the detailed buildings
and landing "T" come into view. Your goal is to land directly on the
"T', but anywhere within the larger rectangle is fine.

Just before you cross the outside edge of the base, begin slowing down
to a hover by pulling up on the cyclic joystick. Be sure to put the
crosshairs on the horizon - it's easy to pitch up too far and end up
going backwards. Note that as your speed falls from 70 to 0 knots,
your lift will decrease. Use the collective up slow to stabilize your
altitude with zero VSI. By the time you accomplish all this and are
hovering at about 50' altitude, you should be near the center of the
base.

Finally, use the cyclic joystick carefully to move your helicopter
toward the "T'. Come back to a hover, and tap the collective down slow
once to begin your final descent. At about 20' and/or 10' altitude you
may need another tap to continue descending to a touchdown.

SHUT DOWN: When you land (altitude is zero) turn off both engines.
This ends the flight; your postflight options will appear.

MISSION: After this first flight, your debriefing will show mission
not yet accom-plished. To satisfy your instructors, you must learn how
to hit the target too. Go to "Beginners Tutorial II" to finish your
training.



BEGINNERS TUTORIAL II - DEFENSE & GUNNERY


This tutorial teaches you how to recognize and deal with various enemy
missile (SAM) and gun (AA) attacks. It also gives you practice in
using your own weapons against appropriate targets.

STARTING If you have just finished the first Tutorial, you can use the
same defaults again (same region, style of flying, and reality
levels). The region should be "Training in the USA:' style should be
"Regular Missions:' and reality should be "Realistic Flying:' "Easy
Landing" and "Easy Weather."

Note: When training in the USA all missiles and gun shells fired at
you are "blanks". You can never suffer damage from "enemy" fire while
training. However, don't forget that everywhere else the enemy plays
"for keeps:".


MAKE A PLAN: Before takeoff examine the sector map of the traning
area. Pickone of the three dummy installations (HQ, Russian Heli-base,
or the Depot) as your objective. Move the INS marker to that
objective. Notice the "enemy" forces along or near the line of flight
from your base to the objective. These are the "opponents" you will
engage.

TAKEOFF: Take off and get into level flight at 100' altitude (digital
readout on altimeter is "01").

THREATS: As you fly, watch the threat display on the lower right A red
dot means an enemy with AAA (anti-aircraft artillery) or SAMs
(surface-to-air missiles) have detected you. A flashing red and white
dot means an enemy helicopter is approaching. A white dot means a
missile is flying (yours or an enemy's - the threat display cannot
distinguish one missile from another). Also watch your warning lights.
When the "I" turns red an IR homing missile is being launched. When
the "R" is red radar-guided missiles or guns are either searching for
or tracking you.

When enemies appear on your threat display they are also plotted on
the map. If you have the time, you can look at the map to learn what
type of enemy is attacking you. Though virtually every enemy has some
sort of light guns or shoulder-launched missile (the SA-7, SA-7B or
SA-14), the most dangerous are the AA gun sites and vehicles, or the
SAM vehicles.

USING A JAMMER: When a warning light comes on, the standard response
is to turn on the appropriate jammer (press the IR or Radar jammer
On/Off once). A small green light beside the warning light turns on,
showing your jammer is running. If the warning light turns off, the
jamming was successful. Now turn onto a new course. Jammed missiles
often continue flying on their old course, and will hit you unless you
change your course.

Keep your jammer running until you destroy or fly away from the enemy
launcher or gun. In concentrations of enemies some pilots will turn on
both jammers and constantly fly a "jinking" zig-zag course to confuse
missiles and enemy gunnery.

USING A DECOY: If the warning light does not turn off by jamming, try
using a decoy. Tap Drop Chaff or Drop Flare to deploy decoys. The
decoy symbol below the CRT will light up. While the symbol is lighted
the decoy should be drawing the missile or gunnery control toward it.

Decoys are launched in three-cartridge "units of fire'. Although your
cockpit control panel shows units of fire for convenience, the
pre-flight arming and stores readout displays show actual1 cartridges
available. If you check your stores display after launching a chaff of
flre decoy, you'll see the amount remaining has decreased by three.

EVASIVE FLYING: Another way to avoid a threat is to dive to a lower
altitude while turning parallel to or away from the threat. If you get
lower and avoid closing the range an enemy often loses sight of you.
Enemy weapons aimed by eyeball (many AA guns and a few SAMs) cannot be
jammed or decoyed. Against these threats evasive flying is your only
defense. Another evasive technique is to slow your speed once you're
low. Slow movement at low altitude is very hard to spot at a distance.
It is possible to "sneak up" on enemy positions with a helicopter.

Evasive flying is also superior to jammers and decoys because it
doesn't broadcast your position. Both jammers and decoys, not to
mention firing, reveal your presence to the enemy.

DAMAGE: If you don't respond in time to a threat, the gunfire or
missile will hit you. You'll see the flash of explosions around the
edge of the cockpit_ In training that's all you'll see -your
helicopter cannot be damaged. In real battle, the explosion may
penetrate your armor. If a system across the top of the cockpit is no
longer green, something is malfunctioning. Check the damage display
for details. Sometimes you'll want to fly home for repairs before
continuing your mission. If you suffer too many damaging hits, the
structural integrity of your helicopter will fail, causing a general
power failure. The only way to survive this is to successfully
"autorotate" to a landing (see "Aerodynamics'* for details on
autorotation). The actual number of hits varies with the situation and
enemy weaponry, but a good rule of thumb is expect the worst after
you've suffered three or four damaging hits.

USING TADS (Target Acquisition & Designation System): Look on your map
and find a large concentration of red targets near your flight path.
Fly in that direction. When you're close pull up into a hover. Now use
the rotate right and rotate left keys to turn your nose left and
right. When the crosshair is close to a target, the prompt "TARGET"
appears above the CRT. Press the fire button on the joystick The TADS
gunsight box will appear around the target while the zoom camera shows
the target on your CRT. The range to target in kilometers appears in
the upper left (for example, if the range is "O.8", the target is 0.8
kilometers - 800 meters - away).

Tap next TADS target to shift the TADS to another target near the
crosshairs. If there is no other target near the crosshairs, TADS
remains on the original target After TADS is locked onto a target you
can rotate left or right and watch TADS track the target for you. As
the box gets near the edge of your cockpit view tap the View Right or
View Left key as appropriate. Your view switches to the side. Notice
that TADS continues to follow the target As long as you can see the
target TADS will follow it.

If the target leaves your field of view, TADS loses it and
automatically unlocks. Unless there is another target near your
crosshairs for TADS to lock onto, the CRT switches back to the map.

TADS can only lock onto targets you can spot. At low altitude (such as
under 100') you can't see very far. Targets appear at very short
ranges (just a few hundred meters away). The higher you are, the
further you can see: TADS can lock onto targets at further and further
ranges. Of course, the higher you are, the easier it is for enemies to
spot you. As a result, helicopter pilots tend to fly low and
occasionally "pop up" to locate enemies. A favorite maneuver is to
"pop up" from behind a hill.

The 30mm Chain Gun cannon and the 2.75" FFAR rockets have varying
accuracy, depending on range and whether the weapon faces ahead. The
TADS box changes color from dark (poor accuracy) to light (good
accuracy) with these weapons. The Sidewinderand Hellfire always have
good accuracy, and therefore the TADS box is always light colored if
one of these weapons is selected.

RADIO MESSAGES & MAP VIEWS DURING BATTLE: If the CRT target view
interferes with your navigation, or you want to read a radio message,
tap Change CRT, TADS turns off and the CRT switches the next available
mode (see "Controls" for details).

FIRING WEAPONS: To fire you must first select a weapon. When you press
the appropriate Select Weapon key, that weapon lights up beneath the
CRT and the ammo supply appears in white. Cannon ammo is shown in 20
round bursts. Once a weapon is selected, to fire simply press the Fire
Button on the joystick. The 30mm Chain Gun cannon is automatically
aimed at the target designated by TADS (the AH-64A has a ballistic
computer that aims the cannon for you). However, the cannon is more
accurate firing straight ahead. The TADS box will turn a brighter
color as accuracy improves. Cannon maximum range is 1.5 kilometers,
but the effective range is about 0.7 kilometers firing ahead, and only
0.3 to 0.4 kilometers in a "deflection shot" to the side.

The AGM-114A Hellfire anti-tank missile is guided by laser at the TADS
target. As long as you keep TADS locked on target the Hellfire flies
toward it The Hellfire has a minimum range of a few hundred meters -
it takes time for the missile to lock onto the TADS laser. The maximum
range of the Hellfire is 6 kilometers. Furthermore, once beyond
minimum? range, Hellfire accuracy is unaffected by range.

The 2.75" FFAR rockets are completely unguided. You must line up the
cross-hairs in the center of the TADS box, then fire. The rockets fly
straight ahead at whatever was in the center of the crosshair when you
fired. After the rockets are launched you need not keep the target in
the crosshairs. The maximum range of FFAR rockets is about 1.8
kilometers, but accuracy improves at shorter ranges. As with the
cannon, the TADS box will become brighter as your accuracy improves.
The AIM-9L Sidewinder is a "fire and forget" air-to-air homing
missile. Lock the TADS onto a flying target and make sure the target
is generally ahead (fairly close to the crosshairs). Then fire the
missile. Once you fire, you can switch the TADS to something else
and/or fly away. Enemy aircraft may have jammers or decoys that could
cause a Sidewinder to miss. Maximum range of the L-model Sidewinder is
18 kilometers. Effective range against a helicopter is virtually
equivalent to the maximum range.

WEAPON RESTRICTIONS: Certain weapons are only effective against
certain targets. The 30mm cannon is effective against anything except
bunkers which it can destroy only occasionally. The AGM-114A Hellfire
is effective against "hard" targets (all vehicles and bunkers, but not
other installations). The 2.75" FFAR rockets are effective against
"soft" targets (infantry,AAgun sites, and installations - such as the
HQ Depot and Russian Heli-base). The AIM-9L Sidewinder is effective
only against flying targets It is useless against any ground target.

RECOIL: When you fire a cannon or guided missile the helicopter bucks
and recoils upwards. Be prepared to regain control quickly.

HITTING THE OBJECTIVE Eventually you'll reach your objective. Lock the
TADS onto the HQ Heli-base or Depot and select the 3Omm cannon. In
actual combat, you'd fly straight in and open fire at 0.7 kilometers
(closer if you're short of ammo). However, in training try "buzzing"
over the target at 30' first This will show you what the target looks
like. Then circle around, lock on the TADS once more, and make a
second pass with cannons blazing. If you want a real test of skill,
don't use the cannon Instead ,make a rocket attack at 1.5 kilometers
or so. You'll probably need to fire lots of rockets.

RETURNING TO BASE: After destroying the objective go back to the
sector map and set your INS for your home base. Fly home, land, and
shut down both engines. You can either rearm and refuel for another
round of target practice. or you can call it quits here. A successful
flight may qualify you for the National Defense Service Medal.


AFTER THE MISSION - SUCCEEDING AS GUNSHIP PILOT

DEBRIEFING & SUBSEQUENT OPTIONS

ENDING A MISSION: You end a mission by landing, turning off both
engines, and waiting for the rotor to stop. You then are told your
status, and if you crash as a Sergeant or Warrant Officer you get the
option to "retry" the flight instead of continuing. If you retry, you
fly the same mission again. If you "continue" (this is automatic at
higher ranks) you receive normal results.

Next you can decide whether to examine your craft, leave it, or (if at
a friendly base) ask for more fuel, armament and/or repairs. If you
select repairs the enemy will have time to bring up reinforcements. In
some cases your situation or damage will prevent certain options.

After landing you are "debriefed" and may receive promotions or
decorations appropriate to your performance. If you ignored your
orders and failed to perform the mission assigned you could find
yourself peeling potatoes for a while! (Your commanding officer
dislikes being ignored!)

Finally, you'll see your current rank, decorations, and score compared
to the two all-time top scoring pilots of the game. These all-time top
scorers are saved on disk independently of the current roster, and can
only be erased here.

REPLAY OPTIONS: If you decide to try another mission you can either
remain in the same region, flying the same type of missions, or you
can change your style of flying, or you can request a transfer to a
new region. Alternately, you can put your career on "hold" and go on
R&R (rest and recuperation). Pilots on R&R remain on the roster until
you deliberately erase them.

ENDING THE SIMULATION: On the replay options screen you can end the
simulation by removing the disk and turning off your computer. To
ensure accuracy in your pilot roster and records, you should turn off
the computer only when the replay options are showing.


SUCCESS

THE MISSION: If you leave the helicopter somewhere other than a
friendly base, you could be captured by enemy troops. The chances
naturally increase if you're deep in enemy territory.

As a good soldier, your duty is to complete the assigned mission. This
means destroying the primary target Destroying the secondary target as
well is a definite plus. Sometimes your commander will change his mind
during a mission and reassign the secondary target as your new primary
target. Many missions have multiple targets spread over a range of map
coordinates.

If you finish the mission without achieving either objective your
commander will not be pleased, no matter how many other targets you
hit. Flying around blasting the closest enemy does NOT guarantee
promotions and decorations. On the other hand, targets hit in addition
to the assigned objectives definitely help toward decorations and
faster promotion.

Your commander will rate your performance based on time elapsed. If
you are flying over 20 minutes, he will reduce the credit given for
your achievements. If you accomplish both primary and secondary
missions, he will automatically insist the mission is over when you
return to base.

RANKS: Successful completion of your assigned missions improves your
record. A good record leads to promotions. Even on the battlefield
promotions take time. Don't expect a promotion after every mission.

You start with the rank of Sergeant -just like real helicopter pilots
entering flight training. When you successfully complete a mission
(usually flight training) you'll be promoted to Warrant Officer (WO1).
After that, success leads to 2nd Lieutenant, 1st Lieutenant, Captain,
Major, Lieutenant Colonel and finally Colonel. Although higher ranks
exist in the U.S. Army, the highest conceivable rank where an officer
could still perform combat flying is Colonel.

Each reprimand you "earn" goes into your record and makes promotion
more difficult Reprimands occur when you use `Sick Call" to evade a
mission, or when you achieve no assigned objectives. On the other
hand, each heroism decoration (the Army Commendation Medal, Bronze or
Silver Star, Distinguished Service Cross, or Medal of Honor) makes
promotion easier.

DECORATIONS: If you do exceptionally well on a mission, you may be
awarded a medal for heroism and bravery above and beyond the call of
duty. Unlike rank these decorations are based purely on your
performance during a single mission. Your rank and prior record have
no effect on your chance of getting a decoration (just like the real
army).

The decorations for heroism and valor are [from least difficult to
achieve upwards):Army Commendation Medal, Bronze Star, Silver Star,
Distinguished Service Cross, and the Congressional Medal of Honor
(America's highest military award).

In addition to decorations for heroism, additional medals and ribbons
are awarded for regions of service, wounds, etc. The Nationai Defense
Service Medal is traditionally given for successfully completing
training. The Purple Heart is awarded for wounds in combat. Campaign
Ribbons for a particular region are awarded for completing a tour of
duty (multiple successful missions) in that region. After a campaign
ribbon, additional tours give you the Air Medal, which recognizes
exceptional flying time.

WORLD'S GREATEST GUNSHIP PILOT: The ultimate Apache pilot is a Colonel
with ribbons and air medals for every region. In addition, he holds
the Congressional Medal of Honor along with a one or more lesser
decorations for heroism and gallantry. Can you meet this challenge
once? How many such Colonels can you have on your pilot roster?


PART II
APACHE PILOT'S MANUAL
AH-64A Apache Operations Manual : 64-H-029-2/2


AERODYNAMICS and the APACHE AH-64A APACHE

HELICOPTER AERODYNAMICS

This discussion of lift and flight is not intended to be rigorous or
precise in a scientific sense. Its purpose is to provide a rudimentary
understanding of the physics involved in helicopter flight. For a more
detailed and accurate discussion of flight and lift, consult a
textbook.

LIFT: Helicopters fly because the individual blades of the rotor are
airfoils - objects that produce lift (force upwards) as they pass
through the air. On normal planes the wings are airfoils. Helicopters
rotate their "wings" (the rotor blades) to generate lift.

Lift is caused by the flow of the air OVER the blades, NOT the
downwash of air from the rotor. The air flowing over the blade travels
a shorter distance on the underside and a longer distance over the
top. Bernoulli's Principle states that there is less pressure on the
upper side of the blade, more pressure on the lower side. The result
is a force upwards from the high pressure to the low pressure region.

The amount of lift a moving blade generates depends on its angle of
attack This is the angle between the relative wind in the blade system
and the blade's pitch. Pulling up (increasing) the collective
increases blade pitch (the angle of attack), which increases the
pressure differential, and thus gives more lift In GUNSHIP an
automatic delimiter exists that prevents you from increasing the pitch
too far. However, in many helicopters you can raise the collective too
high, causing the blades to "stall'.

In addition to the lift created by blade pitch, helicopters also gain
lift from forward motion. This lift is called "translational lift" In
forward flight the rotor system as a whole acts like a fixed wing. The
effect is increased lift, and therefore increased performance. On the
AH-64A this increase is most notable in the 30-90 knot speed range,
and includes some small extra lift generated by the weapons wings on
the fuselage.

A helicopter hovering or moving very slowly at extremely low altitude
creates a "ground cushion" of air beneath the rotor. This improves
lift slightly. For the AH-64A Apache the ground cushion effect is
strongest at roughly 12 feet off the ground. When you take off into a
low-altitude hover, you are rising onto the ground cushion. However,
at speeds beyond a few knots the helicopter out-distances the ground
cushion effect Pilots often refer to this as "sliding off the
cushion."

CONTROLLING FLIGHT: When hovering, the lifting force of a helicopter
rotor is directed straight upwards (counteracting the downward force
of gravity). To move forward, you tilt the rotor so that the lifting
force is now diagonally upwards - a combination of vertical and
horizontal forces. The horizontal component of the force produces
forward motion. Of course, the vertical component is now somewhat
less, so you'd expect the helicopter to descend. This is exactly what
happens - until the craft gains enough speed for translational lift to
make up the difference.

Similarly, to turn left or right, or to fly backwards, the pilot tilts
the rotor in the appropriate direction. In the case of left or right
turns, at very low speeds tilting the rotor causes the helicopter to
sideslip ("skid") without turning. At higher speeds the entire craft
turns left or right, like the banking turn of an airplane. Once a
helicopter picks up speed, the flow of air into the rotor system has
an effect on lift. The blade moving backwards toward the rear of the
craft (the "retreating" blade) is moving with the wind, and therefore
is generating less lift than the blade moving forwards ("advancing")
into the wind. To compensate, the rotor blades automatically change
their pitch as they go around, maintaining an equal lifting force.

VDL (Velocity Design Limit): As a helicopter moves faster and faster,
the retreating blade needs more and more pitch to generate its share
of the lift. Eventually the amount of pitch required becomes too great
and the blades begin to stall (cause air turbulence instead of lift)
as they retreat. In short, helicopters have a maximum forward speed -
beyond that speed the retreating blade ceases to be an airfoil and the
helicopter loses lift As lift decreases, so does the force creating
forward motion.

The theoretical maximum speed of a helicopter is normally achieved in
a sloping dive. In forward flight helicopters typically lack the power
to get beyond 75-80% of their VDL. The maximum horizontal speed
possible for the AH-64A is 162 knots. Officially the "never-exceed"
VDL is 197 knots.

ANTI-TORQUE CONTROL: Newton's Third Law of Motion states, "To every
action there is an equal and opposite reaction." In helicopters, as
the rotor turns in one direction, the fuselage housing the engine(s)
and transmission wants to rotate in the other direction. The tail
("anti-torque") rotor exists to counteract this tendency. It produces
just enough horizontal force to prevent unwanted fuselage rotation.

On the AH-64A the blades rotate counterclockwise. The tail rotor
produces force counteracting the clockwise torque on the fuselage. In
a hover, or at very low speeds, a pilot can safely vary the pitch of
the anti-torque tail rotor. The foot pedals (often called "rudders")
are used to change the tail rotor pitch, thus changing its thrust
Reducing the pitch and thrust (pressing the right pedal) causes the
fuselage to rotate clockwise (the nose swings to the right), while
adding pitch (pressing the left pedal) causes the fuselage to rotate
counterclockwise. On GUNSHIP the rotate right and rotate left simulate
these foot pedals.


FLYING TECHNIQUES AND ADVANCED MANEUVERS


FANCY TURNS: A high speed banking turn is easy. However, in such turns
your lift decreases, causing you to lose altitude. If you don't want
to lose altitude, pull your nose up slightly in a turn, then drop it
back down to normal as you come out of the turn. With practice you can
make a fast, banking turn without changing altitude or fooling with
the collective.

Very tight turns require that you stop in midair, spin, and then
accelerate away in the new direction. To do this move the collective
down fast, pull back hard on the stick until you're level, hit the
tail rotor to rotate right or left, then raise the collective back to
normal and pitch down your nose. With practice you can even skid
sideways while the tail rotor is turning your craft (a helpful
maneuver if you're trying to avoid an enemy helicopter missile).

AUTOROTATION: Helicopter crewmen don't have parachutes. You can't bail
out Fortunately, the AH-64A is an exceptionally crashworthy machine
with a good probability of crew survival. However, the loss of both
engines does not mean you must crash. Helicopters have an equivalent
of an airplane's *`dead stick" (or "flameout") landing. This unpowered
descent is called "autorotation".

To begin an autorotation, disengage-the rotors from the engine.
Usually the pilot must bottom the collective, but in GUNSHIP the
collective is automatically bottomed when the rotors are disengaged.
In an emergency where you have both engines out, do this immediately.
If you don't, the rotor will slow to a stop (it's still engaged to the
now-dead engines). If the rotor stops turning before you're safely
down, you're a dead duck.

Now pitch the nose so you're travelling at about 75 to 90 knots (for
maximum translational lift). The rotor is spinning freely because the
airflow keeps the blades turning. The descent becomes quite fast and a
little frightening to the inexperienced. As you get close to the
ground, raise the nose and pull up on the colletive. The blades will
"bite" into-the air, giving you lift anb slowing the descent.
Unfortunately: as the blades bite, air resistance slows them down and
the rotor RPM drops.

You must time the "up collective" so that the helicopter lands gently
before the rotor slows too much. If you raise the collective too soon,
the rotor will get below airfoil speed while you're still above the
ground. Without the lift from the blades, you'll fall like a rock! If
you raise the collective too late, you won't slow your descent fast
enough and the machine will crash land.

UNSAFE FLYING: It takes time to disengage the rotors, get the craft
under control, and then "up collective" to land. As a result, there
are speed-altitude situations where an engine failure results in the
craft hitting the ground before you can perform an autorotation.
Hovering at altitudes above 25 feet up to about 500 feet is unsafe, as
is high-speed fIying under an altitude of 20-30 feet.

"Unsafe" as described above applies to civilian and non-combat flying.
In combat situations unsafe flying may be "safer" than taking a
missile or cannon hit! In the AH-64A normally unsafe flight practices
aren't quite so dangerous. If one engine dies, the other can keep the
helicopter aloft. In single-engine flight, the surviving engine can
run at 110% power continuously (this power increase is automatic in
GUNSHIP), or at 115% for six minutes. The engines and rotor can keep
turning for at least 30 minutes even if the lubrication system fails.
In comparison, oil lubrication system failures and fires are a major
weak point of the Russian-built Mi-24 HIND helicopter. Overall, the
Apache is a forgiving machine designed for daredevil pilots, unlike
the less forgiving single-engine UH-1 and AH-1 helicopters of the
Vietnam war.

OPEN FIELD LANDINGS: The nice thing a bout helicopters is their
ability to land without a paved airstrip. However, helicopters cannot
land on sloping ground. Any slope greater than 5 degrees causes so
much rotor tilt that the helicopter flies, skids or turns away from
the slope, making a landing impossible. Never try to land on a
hillside - you'll crash.

WIND & WEATHER: Ideally, all takeoffs and landings should be into the
wind, however, a helicopter can take off and land in crosswinds or
tailwinds. As the helicopter rises to a hover {in takeoff), or slows
down to hover (in a landing), the cyclic joystick should be moved
slightly toward the wind, producing just enough skid to counteract the
wind velocity. This maintains the hover against the wind. When flying
in windy conditions, the same considerations apply as flying a normal
airplane. Namely, the wind will increase your speed, slow you down,
and/or push you sideways, depending on your flight path in relation to
the wind direction. This is most noticeable on long-distance flights.

Temperature also affects helicopter flight. As air gets warmer, it
expands and becomes thinner, providing less lift If the air gets too
cold, icing on the rotor becomes a problem. Similarly, in humid
conditions the air is composed increasingly of water, reducing lift
Finally, as altitude above sea level increases, air gets thinner,
reducing lift For the A H-6 4A ideal flying conditions are 76 degrees
Farenheit (24.4 degrees centigrade) on a dry day at sea level.


WEAPONS AND TACTICS OF THE AH-64A APACHE

AH-64A WEAPONRY

THE TARGET ACQUISITION & DESIGNATION SYSTEM (TADS): The AH-64A uses a
novel and very effective gunsight system called TADS. Both the pilot
and gunner wear an IHADSS helmet which includes a monocle in front of
the right eye. The cockpit and helmet have IR diode sensors that track
the helmet's position in three dimensions. When the crewman turns his
head and looks through the monocle at a target, the TADS computers
"know" what direction he is looking. The nose TV camera, laser, FLIR
optics (forward-looking infra red for vision in low visibility) and
Chain Gun all point in the direction he looks.

In GUNSHIP the TADS gunsight is a small box that appears in the upper
cockpit glass. When you lock it onto a target, a zoom TV camera view
appears on the CRT below, including the range in kilometers and
magnification of the camera. Once TADS is locked onto a target, it
tracks while you maneuver and fly the helicopter. As long as the
target remains in your field of view TADS will track it. TADS includes
a laser rangefinder and ballistic computer that automatically aim the
30mm Chain Gun cannon at the target In addition, when the ACM-114A
Hellfire is armed for firing, the laser acts as a designator that
"calls out" the target for the missile.

The 2.75" FFAR rockets and the AIM-9L Sidewinder operate independently
of the TADS. The rockets are unguided ("dumb" weapons) that fly
straight ahead. The AIM-9L Sidewinder has its own built-in IR seeker.
If you aim it toward an enemy aircraft or helicopter and then fire, it
should find its own way to the target Note that TADS is a "line of
sight" system built into the nose of the helicopter. As a result, the
greater your altitude, the further TADS can see. Conversely, as you
descend, TADS range is reduced. It's not uncommon to lose targets in a
power dive. If another target is available, TADS switches to that
Otherwise it switches off.

THE 30mm CHAIN GUN This automatic cannon is beneath the nose on a
mount that swivels and elevates under control of the TADS ballistic
computer. It is NOT aimed manually. The computer aims the gun at
whatever target is designated by the wearer of the IHADSS helmet, and
then computes deflection using the laser rangefinder.

The cannon fires 625 rounds per minute. Traditional machineguns and
automatic cannons use the recoil of one shot to load the next If a
shot misfires or the belt jams them is no more recoil and the gun is
useless until a mechanic disassembles the weapon and clears it Since
1916 jamming in aircraft machineguns and cannons has been a serious
problem. The "Chain Gun" does not use this principle. Instead an
electric motor pulls the ammo belt through the gun (hence the term
"chain gun").  Even ifa shell misfires or is a dud the motor continues
pulling theammobelt. This greatly reduces the probability of a
disabling jam.

The 30mm Chain Gun cannon normally fires HEDP (high explosive dual
purpose) rounds that are effective against both unarmored and armored
targets. The rounds are not powerful enough to pierce the thick
frontal armor of a main battle tank They are effective against the
thinner top and rear armor of tanks. The cannon can use European 30mm
DEFA ammunition if American-made HEDP is unavailable. The main
disadvantage of the Chain Gun is its enormous recoil, despite the
relatively low muzzle velocity. No other helicopter carries such a
heavy weapon. As a result, although the cannon may be aimed "on
target" after a few rounds it could be off target again. This problem
is especially serious when the cannon is firing left or right, and
minimized if the cannon is firing ahead.

The cannon's maximum range is approximately 1.5 kilometers. However,
its low muzzle velocity and recoil problems suggest that effective
range for reasonably accurate shooting (i.e., at least a 50% change of
hitting a target dead ahead) is perhaps half that, or about 0.7
kilometers.

On the "plus" side, the 30mm cannon is an enormously valuable weapon
against enemy helicopters and slow-flying aircraft The IHADSS and TADS
system allows it to "track' and engage enemy targets to either side
and below the helicopter - the pilot need not point his helicopter at
the target to fire. Helicopters with manually controlled turrets (such
as the Mi-24 HIND-D) or fixed weapons (such as the Mi-24 HIND-E) lack
this advantage. However the slow rate of fire makes the cannon
ineffective against fast jets, which can literally fly between the
shells.

AGM-114A HELLFIRE ANTI-TANK MISSILES The Hellfire laser-homing missile
with a HEAT armor-piercing warhead is a semi-active.

The missile's guidance system homes on the scattering frequency of a
laser hitting a target In other words, the missile does not "see" the
laser beam. Instead, when the laser beam hits a target and breaks up
the missile "sees" the beam breakup. If the laser beam is switched
from one target to another, the missile will "see" the target spot
change, and fly toward the new target This allows "ripple fire"
tactics where the Apache launches two or more missiles, one behind
another. When the first missile hits, the laser is switched to another
target, and the second missile (already in flight) homes on the new
target


Laser designators are not as effective in rain, snow, fog, or smoke.
The beam breakup "spot" cannot be "seen" as easily. A favorite defense
against laser designated weapons is a quick smoke screen. Many tanks
now carry multiple smoke projectors for just this purpose. In bad
weather conditions aircraft are often grounded, making the laser
designation problem moot.

The disadvantage of the laser system is that the helicopter must
remain exposed, laser shining, to guide the missile to target
Fortunately, the Hellfire can be guided by standard U.S. Army laser
designators, carried on various scout helicopters and by ground
troops. They can designate a target for a missile launched by the
Apache. This means the Apache could fire from a hidden position, just
like an artillery piece. Of course, such tactics require excellent
radio communication and superb timing. The more common "scenario",
portrayed in GUNSHIP, is the Apache designating its own targets "on
the fly?".

The Hellfire's warhead is a 177.8mm diameter HEAT design: High
Explosive Anti-Tank. This burns through virtually any steel armor as
well as most modern composites and spaced armor. The armor-penetrating
ability of HEAT is propor-tional to the warhead diameter. The Hellfire
has a 177.8mm diameter warhead: America's previous top-quality
anti-tank missile (the TOW), still `greatly' respected, has a 152mm
warhead.

Unfortunately. this warhead design is ineffective against "soft"
targets such as groups of men, building complexes. or AA gun sites. In
the simulation, this means a Hellfire cannot destroy a Headquarters,
Depot, Helibase, or a AA gun site (such as the 23mm ZU-23 or the 57mm
S-60). However, it is extremely effective against vehicles. It can
also penetrate and destroy bunkers.

The Hellfire is an extremely long-ranged missile. Most ATGMs
(anti-tank guided missiles) have a range of three kilometers. The
Hellfire can fly up to six! Range does not affect accuracy: as long as
the Hellfire can find the spot designated by laser, it will hit it.

2.75" FOLDING FIN AERIAL ROCKETS (FFAR): The 2.75" FFAR rockets, in
pods of varying sizes and weights, are a venerable weapon dating back
to the 1950's. The rockets themselves are completely unguided, with a
reputation for erratic flight, and sometimes not firing at all!
Maximum range is about 1.8 kilometers, but a wise gunner waits until
he's much closer before firing. The 7- and 29-rocket pods for the
AH-64 are a new lightweight design that minimizes the "dead weight" of
the launcher pod.

The standard rocket warhead is a typical "HE" high
explosive/fragmentation type that is quite effective against ground
troops, AA gun sites, and installations. Men on the receiving end of a
full pod volley can feel the ground shake and buck beneath them, like
an earthquake, while deadly metal fragments fill the air. The shock
effect alone can daze men for minutes. Near-misses and shock effect is
not enough to disable an armored vehicle or bunker, although a lucky
explosion could immobilize a vehicle.

Despite their drawbacks, the FFAR rockets are a good compliment to the
Hellfire missiles. They are most effective against targets the
Hellfire can't really hurt. They can be fired at a longer range than
the cannon. Even if the rockets miss they often "suppress" soft
targets. The helicopter can then close for the kill using cannon fire.
FFAR rockets are also extremely cheap to build and a common item of
resupply throughout the Western world.

It is relatively easy to build FFAR rockets with special warheads,
such as White Phosphorous (WP), which burns intensely and gives off a
cloud of smoke, or even various chemicals such as tear gas. Although
such weapons are rare today, there is considerable fear that the
Warsaw Pact plans heavy use of chemical warfare if involved in a
European conflict.

AIM-9L SIDEWINDER AIR-TO-AIR MISSILES: :The AIM-9L is an all-aspect
infra red homing air-to-air missile. It was combat-proven in the
Falkland Islands, where most of the "kills" accomplished by British
Harriers against Argentine jets were with "Niner Limas", The British
pilots were quite satisfied with the performance of this weapon. The
Sidewinder was originally created in the early 1950's by a small team
on a shoestring budget The early models proved difficult to use in the
Vietnam air war. The Sidewinder homes on heat: early models homed on
the heat of a jet exhaust. They would also home on the sun, common
distress flares, or even hot ground or rocks during a summer day! In
the 1970's the seeker was dramatically redesigned to be much more
sensitive (through cryogenic cooling) and less vulnerable to spurious
heat sources (through the use of filters). The missile's speed,
maneuverability and range (now almost 18 kilometers) were all
improved. The warhead was redesigned to explode into destructive
spinning rods, and gained a new ultra-high-tech proximity fuse.

The "L" model combines all of these improvements and is being
manufactured in gigantic quantities by various American and European
firms. Many older versions are being rebuilt to "L" standards. The "L"
model can home on surfaces heated by air deflected across metal (such
as the upper surfaces of aircraft wings or rotor blades). This means
the missile does not need to "fly up the tailpipe" of a jet to hit the
target, but can instead attack from a variety of angles. This dramatic
new capability is termed "all aspect" attack The AIM-9L is probably
the best missile for air-to-air dogfighting in the world today.

The missile is only effective against aircraft targets, especially
unarmored jets. It is reasonably effective against helicopters,
especially since warhead rods can break rotor blades (an immediately
fatal event for any helicopter). Sidewinders are generally unable to
home on ground targets, and even if they could, would only damage
small, soft targets.

Currently no US. Army AH-64A Apaches carry Sidewinders. According to
"the book" Apaches are intended for ground attacks, not air-to-air
combat Reluctantly the Army is recognizing the threat of opposing
helicopters. However, due to a bad case of interservice myopia, it is
considering arming the AH-64A with the designed-for-the-Army FIM-92A
Stinger, a much smaller and less destructive missile intended for use
by infantrymen.

Fortunately American servicemen in combat conditions often ignore "the
book" and acquire whatever weapon does the job best In this case, the
plentiful and effective AIM-9L Sidewinder, despite being an Air Force
weapon, is likely to find its way into the arsenals of Apache attack
helicopter squadrons. Wiring up Apache weapons wings for Sidewinders
is easily done "in the field:' For all of these reasons, the AH-64A
portrayed in this simulation is armed with Sidewinders, not Stingers.


ATTACK TACTICS

THE APPROACH: The vast majority of AH-64A flights are ground-attack
missions. You are to knock out hard or soft targets in a certain area
- often an area protected by SAMs and AA guns.

Your first task is to make sure you know where on the sector map to
find the primary and secondary targets! Setting your INS on the sector
map to the primary target and flying full speed at a few hundred feet
of altitude toward the target may work on training missions or in
Southeast Asia, but it's pure suicide against well-equipped enemies in
the Middle East or Western Europe.

The standard US. Army technique is to fly in quick dashes ("bounds").
Fly from the base of one hill to another. Before making a dash, hover
and pop up briefly to 100-200'. Scan around and use TADS to identify
potential enemies. Drop low again and examine your sector map. It
shows all enemies you sighted, or who sighted you. Pick your next
dash, set the INS, rotate to face that direction, then pitch down and
zoom forward. Stay as low as possible in a dash. When selecting
routes, use hills to screen yourself from enemy fire.

FIRING: Use the right weapon for the job. At longer ranges (over 0.7
kilometers) use the Hellfires against vehicles and bunkers, the FFARs
against infantry, AA gun sites, and buildings, and the Sidewinder
against enemy helicopters. If you are brave enough to get in close
your best all-around weapon is the 3Omrn cannon. Beyond 700 meters or
when making side shots the cannon consumes large amounts of ammunition
for each hit (due to its poor accuracy at longer ranges). "POP UP"
ATTACKS: The "pop up" technique is simple. Hover behind a hill that
screens you from suspected enemy positions. Climb up over the hill
until you're just above the crest Scan around and watch your threat
display. If you recognize an important target immediately, open fire.
If not, drop down behind the hill again and examine your sector map.
You can now consider your situation and decide if you want to pop up
again and attack those targets, or whether you should bound on,
avoiding them. If you decide to attack, pop up again just long enough
to knock out your selected target, then drop down again.


FLAK  & SAM BUSTING: Because a helicopter can sneak up on targets,
taking full advantage of terrain cover, it is much better suited to
attacking AAA and SAM batteries than traditional fixed-wing aircraft
Army/Air Force cooperation tactics plan on Apaches attacking
anti-aircraft weapons while A-10 "Thunderbolt II" jets bombard ground
targets.

The key to eliminating enemy SAMs and ZSU AA tanks is engaging them
quickly. Enemy anti-aircraft defenses have a 5 to 20 second reaction
time, depending on the quality of the equipment and skill of the crew.
You must destroy them during this time. Enemy SAMs give you a little
extra time and warning because you can see the missile coming on the
threat display. Enemy AA guns are tougher because you can't see the
shells coming (they fly too fast), and because guns can use optical
gunsights you can't jam or decoy! Unfortunately, some of the newest
Soviet-built SAMs also have optical guidance systems for missiles.
However, night gives you an advantage against optical systems because
Soviet-made night-vision aids are much inferior to your high-tech FLIR
viewers. TANK HUNTING: The Apache was designed to kill tanks. It's
just a matter of loading up with Hellfires and heading out to the
happy hunting grounds. At a kilometer or two it's like shooting fish
in a barrel. If you prefer, you can come closer and cut them apart
with the 30mm cannon. The U.S. Army expects a 14-l kill ratio (i.e.,
when you kill your 14th tank the helicopter has paid for itself as a
cost-effective weapon). In your eagerness to create scrap metal, make
sure you don't blast friendly tanks by accident!

Russian tanks don't carry an AA weapon larger than a 14.5mm
machinegun. The BMP mechanized infantry vehicles are nastier because
most carry an SA-7, SA-7B or SA-14 "Grail" missile inside. However,
these are lightweight IR homing missiles. The SA-7 and SA-7B are
easily confused by jamming or decoys. Warheads are small: even if one
hits you, you'll probably survive it The brand new SA-14s are believed
to be more potent and less easy to fool. The biggest problem in tank
hunting is that Russian AA tanks and SAM carriers have a nasty habit
of traveling with the tanks and BMP's. Whenever you see a large
concentration of T-74's or BMP's, keep an eye out for a ZSU-23-4 (or
ZSU-30-2) AA tank, or the SAM carriers, such as the SA-9 and SA-13 IR
missile carriers, or the more formidable SA-8 and SA-11 radar missile
carriers.

INFANTRY TARGETS: Infantrymen in open ground are difficult to see with
the naked eye. TADS has similar problems -on the CRT an infantry
position doesn't look like much. Infantry may carry machineguns and
other light weapons, or sometimes the SA-7, SA-6B or SA-14 "Grail" IR
homing missiles. You can attack infantry with FFARs or the 30mm
cannon. If you charge in fast and low you might get them before
they're ready to get you!

Infantry are tricky because it's hard to tell the good guys from the
bad guys. Again,check your map to avoid making costly and painful
mistakes. On the plus side, bunker6 are easy. They don't have Grails
and can be destroyed using the Hellfire. However, most bunkers have
thick roofs nearly impervious to cannon fire. STRUCTURES: Rear area
structures, such as headquarters, heli-base, or supply depot, pose
problems Similar to infantry. Although bigger and easier to see, most
have "Grail" IR homing missiles sited for air defense. In addition,
extra AA gun sites are often emplaced in the area. Try to locate these
defenses as well as the base itself before you charge in. The AA gun
sites are a nuisance because Hellfires are ineffective against them.

When attacking structures, be sure you have the right one. It's
embarrassing to wipe out your own heli-base. In guerilla warfare
environments such as Central America or Southeast Asia, your TADS will
lock onto local farm buildings as well as military bases. Unless you
actually see enemies firing from the building, don't destroy it
Remember, you're trying to win the people's hearts and minds.


DEFENSIVE TACTICS

The most common problem you'll have is surviving enemy ground fire.
This includes enemy anti-aircraft artillery (AAA or "flak")`and
surface-to-air missiles (SAMs). From a pilot's point of view, some of
these are radar-guided threats, some are IR threats, and some are
optically guided (and therefore don't warn you at all!).

WHEN THEY SEE YOU: Only the higher quality AAA and SAMs use
radar-guided systems. Among AAA weapons this includes the ZSU-30-2 and
ZSU-23-4 vehicles, plus more advanced versions of the S-60 57mm gun.
Among SAMs it includes all except the hand-carried SA-7, -7B, -14
series and the early SA-9 Gaskin.

These weapons have "search" radars which can "see" you at long ranges
in day or night If you see a distant red dot on the threat display,
it's probably a search radar looking at you. Most search radar
"sweeps:' causing the radar warning light to flash on and off. Since
the purpose of search radar is to detect your presence, jammers and
decoys are counter-productive, as both announce your presence! All
other enemies lack long-range search radar. Many use eyesight and
binoculars to search. They can't "see" you until you are much closer.
At night their eyesight is especially limited. However, if you open
fire, you'll certainly attract their attention, causing many
additional enemies to "notice" you.

Radar, like normal eyesight, is blocked by objects on the ground. As a
result, ground-based radar has a "dead zone" it cannot see. Above this
dead zone the radar "eyes" will find you. The dead zone becomes
smaller and lower as you approach the radar.

HOW THEY TRACK YOU: If an enemy search is successful, they switch to a
"tracking" mode. If using radar, they constantly illuminate you with a
beam. This sets off your radar warning and causes the light to shine
solidly "on". As with searching, tracking radar as well as eyesight
has a "dead zone" near the ground that varies with distance.
Therefore, if you're being tracked by radar, or suspect you're being
tracked visually, fly lower and away from the enemy to break the
track. Ducking behind a hill will also break a track - enemy eyes and
radars cannot look through hills!

Another way to break the radar tracking is to use your radar jammer or
drop a load of chaff. If jamming is successful the radar warning light
turns off. If it fails, the warning light remains o n -you should
definitely use chaff or try evasive flying. Using chaff decoys the
enemy radar into locking on the chaff - as long as the chaff cloud
persists. The chaff light o n the cockpit turns off when the chaff
cloud disperses.

A few advanced enemy weapons have visual backups for tracking systems.
These may be TV cameras, lasers, or simply optics. Therefore, even
with the best jamming or decoys, they could still open fire. The only
way to defeat these is evasive flying. All AA guns and probably the
new SA-11 fall into this category.

SURVIVING AA GUNFIRE: After tracking you for sufficient time, enemy AA
guns will open fire, and continue firing until they knock you down.
You must either break the track or destroy the weapon. There are no
other options. If the gunfire is radar controlled {your radar warning
light will be on) you could temporarily break the track with radar
jamming or chaff. However, all guns have optical backup systems, and
some only have optics. The best way to survive gunfire is skillful
evasive flying.

SURVIVING SAMS: After a SAM battery has tracked you for a few seconds,
they launch a missile. Missiles come in three lavors: IR-guided,
radar-guided, and visually-guided. When the enemy fires a missile,
you'll see a white dot moving toward you on the threat display. Bear
in mind that IR-guided missiles have their "seeker" on board the
missile, while radar and visual guidance missiles are controlled from
the launcher vehicle.

IR-guided missiles are the most frequent threat Your IR warning light
will turn on when they approach. If you turn on the jammer, and it
succeeds in jamming the missile, the missile's "brain" becomes
confused and it flies mindlessly straight ahead. You should change
course to avoid colliding with it! If the IR jammer fails, try
dropping a flare decoy instead. The missile will aim for the decoy
instead of you. It's important to wait a bit before launching decoys,
since they burn out after a while and the missile will home on you
again. "Poor" IR guidance systems are vulnerable to either decoys or
jammers. "Fair" systems are vulnerable to decoys, and sometimes to
jammers. "Good" systems are vulnerable to either decoys or jammers,
but almost never both, and sometimes are vulnerable to neither!
Finally, very modern and sophisticated IR missiles may have a visual
or laser backup system. Don't assume that defeating the IRguidance
will always confuse a missile.

Radar-guided missiles are primarily designed for use against jet
aircraft, but could threaten you too. A radar beam shining on your
craft guides the missile at you. Using your jammer will break the
beam, causing the missile to fly straight (therefore you should
dodge). Using a chaff decoy will cause the missile to fly toward the
chaff instead of toward you. The problem with radar-guided missiles is
that they have back up systems. The SA-8 and SA-8B become IR guided
missiles if their radar fails. The SA-11 has an unknown but probably
visual-type backup system if the radar is jammed or decoyed.
Therefore, defeating the radar is just the first step in defeating the
missile.

Visually- or laser-guided missiles are the worst threat You have no
jammer or decoy defenses against these. Your only weapon is evasive
flying. Putting a hill between you and the missile is the best bet
Getting low enough to become invisible to the launcher (and therefore
breaking the visual or laser track) is the only other hope. Remember,
successful evasive flying requires that you fly lower AND away from
the enemy. If you continue flying toward the launcher, flying lower
may not help.

All missiles have a universal weak point: they have a huge turning
radius. If you let one get close, then dart off perpendicular to its
flight path, it will be unable to turn fast enough to hit you. This
tactic is fairly easy in a high-speed jet aircraft, but far more
difficult to accomplish in a relatively slow helicopter trying to
avoid a missile flying at 1,000 mph or faster! It takes enormous
skill, split-second timing, and steady nerves to "turn inside" a
missile with a helicopter.  The chart on the following page summarizes
the various Soviet-built AAA and SAM systems, with a description of
the search, tracking, and guidance (for missiles) systems. Read your
intelligence briefings before each mission, then look up each weapon
on this chart Learn what missiles have backup guidance systems, and
which ones do not.

THREAT CHARACTERISTICS
                      Search      Main      Backup    Main     Backup
Weapon          Type  Technique  Tracking  Tracking  Guidance Guidance
SA-7 (*) Grail  SAM   optical    optical   (none)    poor IR  (none)
SA-7B (*) Grail SAM   optical    optical   (none)    fair IR  (none)
SA-14 (*) Grail SAM   optical    optical   (none)    good IR  (none)
SA-9 Gaskin     SAM   optical    optical   (none)    poor IR  (none)
SA-9B Gaskin    SAM   optical    radar     optical   fair IR  (none)
SA-13 Gopher    SAM   optical    radar     visual    good IR  uncertain
SA-8 Gecko      SAM   radar      radar     optical   radar    fair IR
SA-8B Gecko     SAM   radar      radar     optical   radar    good IR
SA-11 Gadfly    SAM   radar      radar     unknown   radar    unknown
ZSU-57-2        AAA   optical    optical   (none)    n/a      n/a
ZSU-23-4        AAA   optical    radar     optical   n/a      n/a
ZSU-23-4M       AAA   radar      radar     optical   n/a      n/a
ZSU-30-2        AAA   radar      radar     unknown   n/a      n/a
S-60 57mm       AAA   varies**   varies**  (none)    n/a      n/a
ZU-23 23mm      AAA   optical    optical   (none)    n/a      n/a

*hand-held missiles carried in BMPs, carried by infantry, and used to
defend headquarters, heli-bases, and depots.

**radar or optical, depending on the sophistication of the army using
the weapon.  n/a =not applicable: gun shells do not need to be guided
to target.

AIR TO AIR COMBAT

Russian-built Mi-24 HIND helicopters are your air-to-air combat
problem. They are somewhat faster than your AH-64 (you'll never outrun
them!), but much less maneuverable. The "E" model with four 23mm
cannons is the most common threat HINDS are unable to fire accurately
sideways in a dogfight, although some do have rotating turrets able to
hit stationary targets. You, however, don't suffer that restriction.
Therefore, your goal is to prevent them from heading toward you. The
worst possible situation is to have a HIND approaching from the rear.
They can fire at you, but you can't even see them!

A typical HIND tactic is to sit behind a hill waiting for you, then
charge forward, guns blazing. They also tend to circle around, trying
to get on your tail. If you have a HIND charging you, you can either
nail him at long range with a Sidewinder, or evade him until you're
ready to use your cannon. The best evasion technique is hiding behind
a hill. Failing in that, fly off to the left or right As he turns
toward you and lines you up in his sights again, turn the other way
fast Take advantage of his slow turning rate. As he gets closer,
circle around him. Keep your TADS on him throughout this process
(you'll probably need to use the left or right view while circling
around). When the reticle box brightens, show him what a 30mm cannon
can do.

If you have a HIND on your tail, you'll take rapid and heavy damage as
his cannons pound you. You've got to shake him off, fast Break right
or left hard. Pitch up to cut your speed. "Up" collective to "elevator
up" or "down" the collective to "elevator down': If your speed drops
below 50 knots use the tail rotor to spin you around while skidding
sideways, then pitch down and bank away. HINDS are poor dogfighters,
so once you shake him, he'll probably fly past to the right or left
and start circling around. Getting on his tail and teaching him a
lesson should be easy.

A new model Russian helicopter with air-to-air IR homing missiles is
believed to exist Whether you call it an "`F" model HIND or the Mi-28
Havoc, it's still a serious threat Keep an eye out for missile-firing
helicopters when facing first line units in Western Europe.


MILITARY EQUIPMENT ON THE MODERN BATTLE FIELD

Use the illustrations in this section as a guide to answering the
vehicle identifi-cation quiz when GUNSHIP begins. The notes on Soviet
AA guns and SAMs are especially useful in understanding the strong and
weak points of enemy weaponry.


WESTERN BLOCK EQUIPMENT

AH-64A APACHE SPECIFICATIONS

The AH-64A Apache was designed and built by Hughes Helicopter Inc., a
subsidiary of McDonnell Douglas Aircraft Phase I development in
competition against Bell Helicopter began in 1972. After a "fly-off"
Hughes was awarded the Phase II full-scale contract in 1976. Final
prototypes were approved and manufacturing began in 1982. The first of
over one thousand AH-64's rolled off the production line on September
30,1983. It will serve in most major U.S. Army units, as well as
selected Army Reserve and National Guard units. Its primary function
is close ground support, especially against enemy front-line armored
vehicles and anti-aircraft weapons. The craft is armored to withstand
hits from 23-mm cannon. Cost per machine is based on a price quoted to
West Germany in spring of 1986.

Overall Length: 58'2"
Overall Width: 48'0"
Overall Height: 15'3"
Weight Empty: 10,268 pounds
Engines: two T700-GE-701 turboshaft jets
Nominal Engine SHP: 1,649 per engine
Maximum Engine SHP: 1,896.4 (running on one engine)
Rotor Speed: 280 RPM
Fuel Capacity: 376 gallons
Maximum Horizontal Airspeed: 162 knots (184 mph)
VDL "never-exceed" Maximum Airspeed: 197 knots (224 mph)
Rated Maximum Climb 2,880 feet per minute
Service Ceiling: 20,560 feet
Avionics: VHF, UHF, IF'F, PNVS, TADS, DASE, Doppler Nav.
Maximum AGM-114A Hellfires: 16 missiles
Maximum 2.75" FFAR Rockets: four 19-rocket pods (76 total)
Maximum 30mm Rounds: 1200 rounds

Maximum AIM-9L Sidewinders: 6 missiles
Maximum FIM-92A Stingers: 6 missiles
Production Cost in 1986 dollars: $7.3 Million each
Amortized R&D Cost in 1986 dollars: $1.1 Million each



Ml and MIA1 "Abram"
Main Battle Tank - USA
Weight: 62.9 tons
Main Weapon: 105mm Rifled or 120mm Smoothbore Cannon
Secondary Weapon: three machineguns
Armor: Heavy (Chobham)
crew: 4
Hull Length: 7.9 meters
Hull Width: 3.7 meters
Height: 2.9 meters
Engine: 1500 hp gas turbine
Maximum Road Speed: 41.5 mph

This is the new standard tank of the U.S. Army, with the latest
engine, armor, and in the Al model, a new West German-made smoothbore
gun, not to mention lots of high-tech hardware. It is considerably
superior to all known Russian tanks, but suffers from having a novel
engine design that needs to work more reliably.  Unlike the Soviet
T-74, the Ml Abrams is an entirely new design that actually works.
It's a curious twist that the Soviets, generally viewed as creative
and innovative tank designers, have been "one-upped" by the U.S. Army,
who formerly lacked a reputation for "state-of-the-art'* tank design.

M2Al "Bradley"
Infantry Fighting Vehicle - USA
Main Weapon: 25mm Auto-Cannon
Secondary Weapon: two TOW missiles
Armor: Light faluminum laminate)
Crew: 3 + 7 passengers
Hull Length: 6.5 meters
Hull Width: 3.2 meters
Height: 3.0 meters
Engine: 500 hp diesel
Maximum Road Speed: 41.0 mph
This is the n ew armored personnel carrier of the U.S. Army, designed
to compete with the Russian BMP while keeping pace with speedy Ml
tanks. It is heavily armed, lightly armored and crowded inside.
Although superior to the M113A3, it must be cautious when engaging
enemy tanks. The TOW missile is no longer an invincible tank-killer.

M113A3
Armored Personnel Carrier - USA
Weight: 12.5 tons
Main Weapon: one or two machineguns
Secondary Weapon: none
Armor: Light (aluminum/steel)
Crew: 2+ 11 passengers
Hull Length 4.9 meters
Hull Width: 2.7 meters
Height2.5 meters
Engine: 275 hp diesel
Maximum Road Speed: 42.0 mph
This is the latest variant-of the U.S. Army's venerable "battle taxi"
for infantry.  It can carry and protect infantry from incidental fire,
and is fairly useful against poorly armed Third World troops. Against
well-outfitted opponents it should stay out of the line of fire.

M163 Vulcan PIVADS
Self-Propelled AA Gun - USA
Weight: `13.5 tons
Main Weapon: 20mm Gatling Gun
Secondary Weapon: none
Armor: Light (aluminum/steel)
Crew: 4
Hull Length: 4.9 meters
Hull Width: 2.9 meters
Height: 2.8 meters
Engine: 215 hp diesel
Maximum Road Speed: 40.5 mph
The Product Improved Vulcan Air Defense System married a six-barrel
20mm Vulcan cannon with the ubiquitous Ml 13 chassis. The gun is aimed
by a gunner, who is aided by a radar rangefinder and tracking
fire-control computer. AIthough useful against unarmored helicopters
and slow-moving planes, it is ineffective against distant or
high-speed targets (such as low-flying jets).

M247 Sergeant York DIVAD
Self-Propelled AA Gun - USA
Weight: 60 tons
Main Weapon: twin 40mm Cannon
Secondary Weapon: one machinegun
Armor: Light (steel)
Crew: 3
Hull Length: 7.1 meters
Hull Width: 3.6 meters
Height: 4.6 meters (including antennae)
Engine: 750 hp diesel
Maximum Road Speed: 29.8 mph
The Sergeant York gun was designed to provide medium range rapid-fire
AAgun defenses for US troops. The U.S. Army has lacked a long-range,
effective AA gun for decades. This design was cobbled together from an
old M48 tank chassis, standard 40mm AA guns, and a fighter plane's
radar system.  Unfortunately, the Sgt York repeatedly failed combat
trials. Only after 146 had been produced was the U.S. Congress able to
close down production of this remarkably expensive boondoggle.

M48Al Chaparral
Surface-to-Air Missile (SAM) System - USA
Weight: 12.7 tons
Main Weapon: four MIM-72C IR homing missiles
Secondary Weapon: none
Armor Light (steel) for crew only
crew 4-5
Hull Length 6.1 meters
Hull Width: 2.7 meters
Height: 2.7 meters (including antennae)
Engine: 202 hp diesel
Maximum Road Speed: 38.0 mph
The Chaparral combined a modified Sidewinder air-to-air missile with
the U.S.  Army M548 carrier. It is designed to work as a team with the
Vulcan AA vehicle.  The Chaparral uses its IR homing missiles at
targets too fast for the Vulcan. Like the Vulcan, it has no integral
search radar. Therefore it cannot engage targets until the gunner sees
them.

Merkava Mk 2
Main Battle Tank - Israel
Weight: 66.0 tons
Main Weapon: 105mm Rifled Cannon
Secondary Weapon: three machineguns
Armor: Heavy (steel/composite)
Crew: 4
Hull Length: 7.5 meters
Hull Width: 3.7 meters
Height: 2.8 meters
Engine: 900 hp diesel
Maximum Road Speed: 28.6 mph
The Merkava is Israel's first "home grown" battle tank, and a very
original design.  It is heavily armored, slow and carries the
traditional 105mm NATO cannon designed 25 years ago. This philosophy
is directly contrary to USSR design concepts, and fairly different
from most western nations. However, Israel is designing from the
greatest successful tank battle experience of any nation in the
post-WWII world. Perhaps they know something we're ignoring?

UH-6 0 Blackhawk
Transport Helicopter - USA
Weight 8.1 tons
Main Weapon: varies (often none)
Secondary Weapon: none
Armor. Light (Kevlar & composites)
Crew: 3 + 11-34 troops
Length: 15.3 meters (excluding rotor)
Width: 5.5 meters (excluding rotor)
Height: 3.8 meters
Engine: two turboshaft jets, 2828 total shp
Maximum Level Speed: 184 mph
The Blackhawk is the U.S. Amy's new general-purpose helicopter and a
worthy successor to the classic but aging UH-1 "Huey": The twin-engine
design, light armor, and high crashworthiness make it a safe, reliable
machine in combat conditions Ground attack, night flying and ECM/ESM
variants exist, as well as many other special-purpose designs.
However, the Blackhawk lacks sophisticated fire control systems, so
even the armed versions are nowhere near as potent in combat as the
AH-64 Apache.

Hughes 500MD Defender
Attack Helicopter - USA
 Weight: 1.6 tons
Main Weapon: four TOW missiles
Secondary Weapon: varies
Armor: none
Crew: 2
Length: 7.6 meters (excluding rotor)
Width 3.2 meters (excluding rotor)
Height: 2.7 meters
Engine: one turboshaft engine, 425 total shp
Maximum Level Speed 140 mph
The Defender is not used by the U.S. Army. It is an inexpensive attack
helicopter for export to smaller Western nations. It currently serves
in the Israeli, Kenyan, and South Korean air forces. Instead of the
TOW anti-tank missiles as shown it can carry a three-barrel 7.62mm
minigun (a gatling machinegun),40mm grenade launcher, or 2.75" FFAR
rocket pods Options include a mast-top sight for the TOW (instead of
the nose sight shown), FLIR night vision for the pilot, air-to-air
missiles, and various computerized flying and combat aids.


EASTERN BLOC EQUIPMENT

T-74
Main Battle Tank - USSR
Weight: 45.1 tons
Main Weapon: 125m m Smoothbore Cannon
Secondary Weapon: two machineguns
Armor: Medium (steel & laminate/composite)
crew: 3
Hull Length: 7.0 meters
Hull Width: 4.8 meters
Height: 2.4 meters
Engine: 780 hp diesel
Maximum Road Speed: approx. 37 mph
This vehicle is still called the T-80 by the U.S. Defense Department,
even though most other nations and sources (including Jane's) indicate
the Soviet designation is T-74. Like all Soviet post-WWII MBTs it is
low, rounded, and fast ("drives like a sports car" according to
Israeli tankers). The 125mm cannon has a mechanical loader that
eliminates the need for a fourth crewman. Sights and night-fighting
equipment aren't up to Western standards. The armor is predominantly
tradi-tional steel plate, since the Soviets haven't discovered the
secret of Chobham armor. The T-74 is an evolutionary improvement in a
family that reaches back through the T-72 to T-64, T-62 and ultimately
to the ancient T-55 of the 1950's.

BMP 2 Infantry Combat Vehicle - USSR
Weight: 16.1 tons
Main Weapon: 30mm Rifled Cannon
Secondary Weapon: AT-5 Spandrel Missile
Armor: Light (steel)
Crew: 3 + 7 passengers
Hull Length: 6.7 meters
Hull Width: 3.1 meters
Height 2.1 meters
Engine: approx 350 hp diesel
Maximum Road Speed: approx 37 mph
The BMP-1 was a seminal concept in AFVs: an amphibious armored vehicle
with a light cannon and anti-tank missile that carried an infantry
squad. The BMP-2 is an improvement on the original. It has a new 30mm
high-velocity gun and better anti-tank missile, but reduced infantry
space (normally only six infantrymen are carried). According to Soviet
doctrine, each BMP should carry a "Grail" (SA-7, SA-7B, or SA-14
surface-to-air missile) for defense against air attack In action one
of the infantrymen opens a top hatch on the rear deck, stands up, aims
the Grail from his shoulder, and fires.

BTR-70
Armored Personnel Carrier - USSR
Weight: 12.7 tons
Main Weapon: IWO machineguns
Secondary Weapon: 30mm grenade launcher
Armor: Light (steel)
Crew: 2 + 9 passengers
Hull Length: 7.8 meters
Hull Width: 2.8 meters
Height: 2.5 meters
Engine: two 115 hp gas reciprocating
Maximum Road Speed: approx 37 mph
This 8-wheeled carrier is an upgrade of the ancient BTR-60, designed
prior to the BMP. Although a useful troop carrier, especially on roads
or flat, firm ground, it has trivial armament, very weak armor, and an
extremely poortransmission (due to the twin engines). Infantry must
enter and exit the passenger compartment through two small roof
hatches (most APCs use large rear doors). If the USSR had a Congress
and/or a free press, ridiculous vehicles like this would be taken out
of production (see the M247 Sergeant York DIVAD).

MT-LB
Armored Carrier - USSR
Weight: 13.1 tons
Main Weapon: one machinegun
Secondary Weapon: none
Armor: Light (steel)
Crew: 2 + 11 passengers
Hull Length: 6.5 meters
Hull Width: 2.9 meters
Height: 1.9 meters
Engine: 240 hp diesel
Maximum Road Speed: 38 mph
This general-purpose carrier was based on an unarmored tractor
designed for use in swamps and arctic areas. It is an excellent cheap
transporter with superior cross-country mobility. It has both roof
hatches and rear doors for easy loading and unloading. Unlike the BMP,
the MT-LB is not designed for fighting in the front lines.

ZSU-23-4 "Shilka"
Self Propelled AA Gun - USSR
Main Weapon: four 23mm Auto-Cannons
Secondary Weapon: none
Armor: Light (steel)
Crew: 4
Hull Length: 6.5 meters
Hull Width: 3.0 meters
Height: 3.0 meters
Engine: 280 hp diesel
Maximum Road Speed: 27 mph
The "Zoo" is another seminal design integrating powerful, rapid-fire
AA guns with computerized radar fire control on a light tank chassis.
The guns overheat quickly, and so are fired in 3 to 5 second bursts.
Still, each burst puts 200 shells into the air! The original ZSU-23-4
design had mediocre radar that had trouble finding targets below 200
altitude. The newer ZSU-23-4M has a much improved radar system with
better search and resolution capabilities. The guns can fire using
optical sights if the radar is jammed. The ZSU-23-4 has been greatly
feared by Western pilots.

ZSU-30-2
Self Propelled AA Gun - USSR
Weight: probably 20-30 tons
Main Weapon: two 30mm Auto-Cannons
Secondary Weapon: probably none
Armor: probably Light (steel)
Crew: probably 3-4
Hull Length: probably 6.2-6.7 meters
Hull Width: probably 3.0 meters
Height unknown
Engine: probably a diesel
Maximum Road Speed: probably 27-37 mph
[No illustration available]
Although it has not been displayed on parade, diverse sources suggest
that the Soviet Union has a new and improved AA tank with twin 30mm
guns. Details are not yet available. This design replaces the
ZSU-23-4,now more than 20 years old.  The heavier caliber 30mm guns
should be able to do more damage at longer ranges against armored
helicopters such as the AH-64.

ZSU-57-2
Self Propelled AA Gun - USSR
Weight: 30.9 tons
Main Weapon: two 57mm Auto-Cannons
Secondary Weapon: none
Armor: Light (steel)
Crew 6
Hull Length: 6.2 meters
Hull Width: 3.0 meters
Height: 3.0 meters
Engine: 280 hp diesel
Maximum Road Speed: 31 mph

This obsolete AA weapon uses an early 1950's tank hull and two late
1950's AA guns. The guns track slowly and lack radar ranging or
control (everything is done optically or manually). However, the
shells are quite powerful - a direct hit can seriously damage a plane
or helicopter, even the armored A-l0's and AH-64's.  Large numbers
were supplied to Soviet client states, who now use it primarily
against ground targets.

Weight: 5.0 tons
Main Weapon: one 57mm Auto-Cannon
Secondary Weapon: none
Armor none
Crew: 7
Length: 8.5 meters traveling
Width: 2.1 meters traveling
Height: 2.6 meters traveling
Engine: none
Maximum Road Speed: towed
This old but effective medium AA gun is still used worldwide by
Soviet-equipped states. The gun can be fired using optical control.
For greater accuracy a SON-9A fire control radar with a PUAZO-6/60
director can be attached. One or more guns can be tied into a search
radar system for long-range accuracy. During the Vietnam War this
system is believed to have been the single most effective destroyer of
American aircraft.

ZU-23
23mm AA Gun - USSR
Weight : 1.1 tons
Main Weapon: two 23mm Auto-Cannons
Secondary Weapon: none
Armor: none
Crew: 2-3
Length: 4.6 meters traveling
Width: 1.8 meters traveling
Height: 1.9 meters traveling
Engine: none
Maximum Road Speed: towed
This cheap, rapid-fire, short-range AAgun is used extensively by
Soviet-supplied armies. It is relatively ligh t for easy
transportation and sets up quickly. The gun is considerably superior
to machineguns and other ad hoc AA defenses, but is not designed for
use with radar. Therefore its range is low and its accuracy against
fast-moving targets is totally dependent on the gunner's skill.

SA-7, SA-7B or SA-14
Portable Surface-to-Air Missile - USSR
Weight: 20.3 lb missile (tube extra)
Main Weapon: 5.5 lb fragmentation warhead
Secondary Weapon: none
Armor: none
Crew: 1
Length: 1.35 meter missile
Width: 70mm missile diameter
Height: (shoulder launched)
Engine: Mach 1.5 solid fuel
Maximum Road Speed: manpack
This IR-homing missile has been popular among Soviet-supplied armies
and terrorists for years. The original SA-7 had an IR homing head that
needed to fly up a jet exhaust, and was easily decoyed by flares and
jammers. The SA-7B has an improved seeker that is less easily jammed,
but still uses a small 5.5 lb. warhead.  The new SA-14 is believed to
have an even better seeker and larger warhead. The maximum range and
altitude of these missiles is consistently underestimated in the West
For example, although an altitude limit of 1,500' is widely quoted, an
SA-7 hit an Omani jet (in 1974) at 11,500 feet!

The SA-7, -7B, or -14 is carried by infantry units, used to defend
ground installations, and carried inside BMP vehicles as their
aircraft defense.

SA-6 "Gainful"
Self Propelled Surface-to-Air Missile Launcher - USSR
Weight: 15.4 tons
Main Weapon: three SA-6 missiles
Secondary Weapon: none
Armor: Light (for crew only)
Crew: 3
Hull Length: 6.8 meters
Hull Width: 3.2 meters
Height: 3.5 meters
Engine: 280 hp diesel
Maximum Road Speed: 27 mph
This medium-range SAM system is commonly used by poorer
Soviet-supplied nations against aircraft at low to medium altitude.
The launcher vehicles travel and fire in cooperation with separate
radar vehicles. One radar system searches for targets, then hands them
off to a second fire-control radar that tracks the target, plus the
missile once it is fired. The fire-control radar then sends commands
to the missile that guide it to the target. If the radar control is
jammed or destroyed the missile flies "blind" and is unlikely to hit
anything. The SA-6 system is popular because the missiles and radar
can move forward with combat troops, or be positioned where threats
are greatest However the radar and control technology are 1960's
vintage and easily jammed. The missiles themselves are slow (Mach 1.5)
and not very maneuverable.

SA-8 "Gecko"
Self Propelled Surface-to-Air Missile Launcher - USSR
SA-7.
It has an even smaller warhead, but a larger minimum range and minimum
altitude. The questionable value of this system was demonstrated in
the 1981-82 Israeli air raids over Lebanon, where Israeli planes
inflicted massive losses on entire Syrian batteries of these vehicles.

SA-11 "Gadfly"
Self Propelled Surface-to-Air Missile Launcher - USSR
Weight: approx 20 tons
Main Weapon: four SA-11 missiles
Secondary Weapon: none
Armor: Light
crew: 3-4
Hull Length: 6.5 meters
Hull Width: 3.0 meters
Height: 3.0 meters
Engine: 280 hp diesel (probably)
Maximum Road Speed: approx. 27 mph
[No illustration available]
This is the latest Soviet medium-range missile, designed to replace
the SA-6 system. It can use the same or improved search and tracking
radars. The missile homes on reflected radar signals, flies very fast
(Mach 3) and is reasonably maneuverable. Because this system is quite
recent, some sources believe it has a backup TV or laser tracking
system as well as IR homing for terminal guidance:

SA-13 "Gopher"
Self Propelled Surface-to-Air Missile Launcher - USSR
Weight: 13.8 tons
Main Weapon: four SA-9 or SA-13 missiles
Secondary Weapon: one machinegun
Armor: Light (for crew only)
crew: 3-4
Hull Length: 6.6 meters
Hull Width: 2.9 meters
Height: 2.3 meters (travelling)
Engine: 240 hp diesel
Maximum Road Speed: approx 34 mph
This is a completely redesigned successor to the SA-9 Gaskin. It has a
small search radar and fires IR homing missiles from a converted MT-LB
vehicle. These missiles are new, improved designs that jump between
two IR frequencies to counteract jamming and flares. The homer is
sensitive enough to find "hot spots" on aircraft skin caused by air
friction, rather than simply chasing the exhaust.  Introduced in 1980,
the SA-13 missile is the USSR's best ground-launched IR homing weapon
now in active service. Versions of the vehicle have been supplied to
the Warsaw Pact and selected Soviet allies, but often the actual
missiles are the poor SA-9s, rather than the state-of-the-art SA-13s!


Mi-24 "Hind"
Attack Helicopter - USSR
Weight: 12.1 tons
Main Weapon: Varies
Secondary Weapon: 2,800 lbs of bombs, rockets, etc.
Armor: Light (titanium?)
crew: 3
Length: 33.7 meters (excluding rotor)
Width: approx 16 meters (excluding rotor)
Height: 3.2 meters
Engine: two Lotarev D-136 turboshaft jets, 11,400 total shp
Maximum Level Speed: 183 mph
This large, fast, heavy, armored helicopter is literally a "flying
battlecruiser." The D model has a 12.7mm gatling gun turret beneath
the nose as its main weapon.  The E model has four fixed 23mm cannons
while the turret houses laser guidance for AT-6 "Spiral" anti-tank
missiles. An F model carrying IR homing missiles for air-to-air combat
may exist (the U.S. Defense Department calls it the Mi-28 Havoc). The
"Hind" is faster than any western helicopter, but much less
maneuverable. Although the D model (illustrated above) has a nose
turret, it lacks an equivalent to IHADSS and TADS. Therefore, in
swirling air-to-air combat it is limited to forward firing, like the E
model. No information exists on the guns and cannons of the "F" model,
much less the fire control system used.


REGIONAL DEPLOYMENTS OF THE AH-64A APACHE

SELECTING REGIONS

The five flying regions are listed in order of difficulty, from the
easiest (Training in the USA) to the most difficult (Western Europe).
U.S. Army regulations require that all new pilots first report to the
training area in the USA This is only sensible. If you're new, follow
those orders and work through both "Beginner's Tutorials: Only then
are you ready for combat duty. Southeast Asia or Central America
should be first, then the Middle East or Western Europe.


TRAINING IN THE USA

Background: This area is designed to help teach you flying, how to use
weapons, and how to use defenses. All enemies fire "blanks? You can
experiment and learn without worrying about damage. LEARN TO FLY HERE
FIRST. Even experienced combat fliers occasionally return here to
experiment with new tactics or try out new flight maneuvers.

The Apache flight training area has a central heliport with various
dummy targets surrounding it A comprehensive combat simulation
environment exists to give pilots realistic practice flying in battle
conditions, but without suffering any battle damage. This area is
ideal for learning to fly, learning to identify Soviet-built equipment
end installations, and to gain skill on both the attack and defense.

Mission Profiles: Use the "Beginners Tutorials" on your first flights.
Then continue to practice until flying, attacking, and avoiding
threats is second nature. The heliport does not use passwords and
countersigns.

Opposing Equipment: This training area includes dummies and
simulations of most Soviet-made equipment It has SA-7, SA-8, and SA-9
missile launchers, ZSU-23-4 AA tanks and S-60 57mm anti-aircraft guns,
T-74 and BMP tank targets infantry and bunker targets, and three
typical Soviet installations: an HQ a supply depot and a forward
heli-base. None of these have active weapons. You cannot be shot down.

Advice from the Sergeant Major: "I've s ee n many good pilots go to
war too soon. It's like lambs to the slaughter.Take my advice,sir,and
get lots of practice hours. Flyin'a gunship is a tricky job at best,
and downright difficult when a dozen bad guys are tryin' to toast you.
No disrespect intended, sir, but the better you are on the practice
range, the better your chances of living through your first battle:
"Don't be too upset if your first flight ends badly. Everybody has
trouble with choppers at first Give it time and you'll get the hang of
it'.


SOUTHEAST ASIA

1st Air Cavalry Division

Background: In 1965 U.S. combat troops are sent on active duty to
fight communist guerilla forces in Southeast Asia. The first helibome
unit in history swings into action in the Ia Drang Valley. Helicopter
transports and gunships are invaluable in finding the elusive enemy.
Communist regular and guerilla forces lack sophisticated weapons, but
the early UH-1 and AH-1 choppers lack armor protection - a stray
bullet could and did disable a million-dollar flying machine.
Fortunately, the AH-64A Apache is armored.

Mission Profiles: Your main problem is finding the enemy. Only
occasionally will you encounter strong AA guns and SAM defenses.
Mission targets are mostly enemy troops and installations, sometimes a
bunker complex Hellfires are only needed against the bunkers.
Otherwise cannon and rockets are perfectly adequate.

Opposing Equipment: Enemy AA weapons are primarily 23mm and 57mm gun
sites. Third line guerilla forces have no radar, while second and
first line NVA troops have radar for their 57mm S-60 sites. The only
SAMs in use against helicopters are outmoded SA-7s. Most of these are
used to defend enemy bases. Intelligence reports no enemy helicopters
in the region, and will update you if the situation changes.

Advice from the Sergeant Major: "Be glad you've got an armored chopper
- baddies in the bush aren't a serious danger. On the other hand those
23's and 57's can be nasty. The ones without radar are especially
irritating - they don't trip your warning lights. If you start
collecting flak, get low quick and dodge. Then decide whether you want
to hunt them down or take another route.


CENTRAL AMERICA

82nd Airborne Division

Background: In October, 1983 America mounted an air-land-sea invasion
of Grenada to eliminate a gradual communist takeover. The government
of El Salvador, an American ally, is struggling to remain coherent
Haiti has just eliminated a hated dictator but has huge internal
troubles. The anti-American government of Nicaragua is under guerrilla
attack by "Contras" based in Honduras and Costa Rica. Border clashes
with U.S. allies could lead to calls for American military assistance.
Cuba, a strong Soviet client-state for decades, still fears an
American invasion. In all cases, the unit ready to move fastest is the
82nd Airborne Division. Men and supplies can be parachuted into action
while mobile fire support (the AH-64AApache) flies to freshly-cleared
firebases and heli-pads. Mission Profiles: Here the enemy has a
conventional army, but the battlefield is irregular and confused.-You
won't find a well-defined front line, but you will find organized
groups of regular enemy troops, supported by AA guns, SAMs, and Hind
helicopters. Beware the high daytime temperatures and humidity, which
greatly reduce carrying capacity.

Opposing Equipment: The enemy forces are primarily infantry, supported
by a few BMP armored vehicles and ZSU-23-4 or ZSU-57-2 AA tanks. The
SA-9 Gaskin missile carrier is the standard "heavy" SAM vehicle, with
a few improved SA-9B's available to first grade troops. Virtually all
enemy infantry and installa-tions have SA-7 Grails, some have the
improved SA-7B. Both 23mm and 57mm guns are commonly used for air
defense. All 57mm guns use search radars, and all but the
worst-equipped have fire control radar too. None of the 23mm guns have
radar. Mi-24 Hind helicopters are available in small numbers to most
communist armies, and will probably make an appearance on the
battlefield. Advice from the Sergeant Major: "Sir, these guys are not
primitive villagers from the boondocks. They've got decent weapons and
know how to use them. If you get a radar warning, it's probably a
ZSU-23-4 or a 57mm AA gun. Don't just jam them, hit them before they
switch to optical and hit you! Like Southeast Asia, beware of the
23mm's and older ZSU's that use optical control - they don't warn you
before they fire! When loading up, carry lots of 30mm. Hellfires are
useful at times, but don't go crazy with them.

101st Air Assault Division Background: The Middle East is still the
world's trouble spot Israel and Syria duel in desultory fashion over
southern Lebanon and their common border, the Golan Heights. The
Iran-Iraq war continues to hold the danger of a losing Iran seeking
revenge by closing the Straits of Hormuz to oil traffic. Worse,
Iranian-style religious radicalism might surface in any nearby Moslem
state, triggering a civil war. If an American friend calls for aid, or
international straits need to be cleared, in America's "Central
Command" reaction force the key unit is the 10lst Air Assault
Division. Formerly a parachute division, it's now an experimental
hybrid practicing the "Air-Land 2000" mobile warfare of the future.
Naturally, the AH-64A Apache is a key player on this new team.

Mission Profiles: Here you face modem armored forces lavishly equipped
by the Soviet Union. Fortunately, this is the enemy the Apache was
designed to destroy. Careful weapons loading is paramount because high
ground level and very high temperatures conspire to reduce your
carrying capacity. The majority of enemy targets will be armored
vehicles, making the Hellfire an extremely important weapon.

Opposing Equipment: Most opponents have numerous tanks and personnel
carriers, protected by ZSU's, SA-8's and SA-9's. Enemy first line
forces use the ZSU-23-4M AA tank SA-8B and SA-9B SAM vehicles, S-60
57mm guns with full radar, and outfit their infantry with SA-7B
improved Grails. Enemy second line forces have the older ZSU-23-4 with
poorer radar, the older SA-8 and SA-9 SAMs, no fire control radar on
the 57mm gun sites, but still have the SA-7B improved Grails. Enemy
third line forces are lucky to field the ancient ZSU-57-2 (with no
radar), only have the SA-9 SAM vehicle, use older SA-7 Grails, and
also lack fire control radar for the 57mm guns. Enemy air forces have
a few Mi-24 Hind helicopters, so you may see some occasionally.

Advice from the Sergeant Major: "Sir: these fellows can be nasty,
especially the first and second line troops with those SA-8 Geckos.
Only the third line ZSU-57-2 and occasional 57mm gun site relies on
optical control. However, their modern equipment does set off your
warning lights. So the enemy's better weaponry works in your favor
too. Probably the tough part is the weight limit, especially on a hot
day. Therefore, I advise against Sidewinders. If you meet a Hind, get
him with the trusty 30mm. Hellfires will be useful against all those
armored vehicles. Some guys I know don't carry FFARs, but that may be
going too far.. . Sorry, sir, humor ain't my strong point.


WESTERN EUROPE

3rd Armored Division

Background: For over 40 years NATO forces across Germany have faced
the Warsaw Pact Both sides are armed to the teeth, ready for war. A
number of U.S. Army divisions are stationed on this line, including
the 3rd Armored of the U.S. V Corps. Trouble anywhere could lead to
escalating tensions. When tensions are high, one itchy trigger finger
could start a conventional war between the two superpower alliances.
It is imperative that NATO stop the Russian steamroller without using
nukes. Otherwise the President could be reduced to a choice between
Russians in Paris, or nuclear winter for all!

Mission Profiles: Anything and everything can and will happen in this
desperate free-for-all. The only sure thing is that the enemy is fully
armored and moving fast under an umbrella of sophisticated flak SAMs,
and helicopter gunships. Soviet military forces may not be very
creative, but they are numerous and brave. They will keep coming until
you stop them!

Opposing Equipment: The Warsaw Pact 1st Line Soviet Divisions have the
very latest equipment: ZSU-30-Z AA tanks, SA-11 and SA-13 SAMs, and
SA-14s for all the infantry and BMPs. The 2nd Line allied troops from
East Germany, Poland and Czechoslovakia have the best of the previous
generation: the ZSU-23-4M, SA-8B and SA-9B, and the SA-7B improved
Grails for BMPs and infantry. Third line troops are mainly found in
quiet areas, since they're Soviet reserve divisions or hastily
organized allied troops. They have older ZSU-23-4's, unimproved
SA-8's, SA-9's, and SA-7s. A few S-60 57mm guns can be found near
important installations in all cases, and all but the third line
troops have both search and fire control radar for these gun sites.

Advice from the Sergeant Major: "Well sir, this is the big time. We're
up against the first team here. They've got everything including the
kitchen sink, and they'll use it Anywhere else is a piece of cake
compared to this. But our boys on the ground are badly outnumbered and
need us to even up the odds. Your best chance is at night, since their
night vision stuff isn't as hot as ours. Load up on Hellfires - the
Pact has hordes of armored vehicles out them. On a good night you
might bag your fourteen in one sortie! Don't forget Sidewinders
either. Hinds are as thick as flies around here.'



GLOSSARY

AAA: (Anti-aircraft Artillery): A gun designed to shoot down flying
craft

AA: (Anti-aircraft): A popular shortening of "AAA"

Aft: Alternate term for "after" or "behind': originally nautical

AFV (Armored Fighting Vehicle): Any armored vehicle designed for use
on the battlefield. Includes tanks, personnel carriers,self-propelled
artillery, self-propelled anti-aircraft guns, etc.

AGM-114A (Air-to-Ground Missile, Type 114, Version A, "Hellfire"):
Standard U.S. Army laser-homing armor-piercing missile.

AIM-9L (Air Interception Missile, Type 9, Version L, "Sidewinder"):
Standard US.  Air Force IR-homing air-to-air missile.

Anti-Torque Rotor: Also known as the "tail" rotor, used to stabilize
yaw on a helicopter.

APC (Armored Personnel Carrier): An armored vehicle designed to carry
and protect infantrymen. It may have wheels or tracks, and it may or
may not be armed.

Avionics: All electronic equipment that either informs a pilot about
his flying craft or helps him control that craft

Autorotation: A technique for landing a helicopter without engine
power.

Ballistics: Study of projectile performance: i.e., the hows and whys
of bullets and shells flying through the air.

BMP (Boevaya Mashina Peknota - Infantry Fighting Vehicle): Russian
armored personnel carrier with a powerful armament It permits an
infantry squad to fight while riding the vehicle, or fight on foot
with the vehicle providing fire support not unlike a tank Popularly
known as the "Bump" by American serviceman.

Bunker: A fortification to protect ground troops and weapons. It
generally has a very thick side and roof made of earth, concrete,
and/or steel.

Chaff: Thousands of tiny strips of metal, designed to reflect radar
waves. Chaff is scattered in a "cloud" to confuse radar.

Collective: Hellicopter flight control that changes the angle of
attack of the rotor, and thus indirectly changes the lifting force of
the rotor.

CRT (Cathode Ray Tube): Generic term for any TV and/or computer
display screen.

Cyclic: Helicopter joystick flight control that controls pitch and roll.

FFAR (Folding Fin Aerial Rocket): Abbreviation for lightweight
unguided rockets commonly used by ground attack planes and
helicopters.

Flak: Nickname for anti-aircraft guns or their exploding shells,
derived from the German word for anti-aircraft gun.

Flares: A generic term for a heat source designed to mimic the heat
signature of a flying craft, and thus confusing IR-homing weapons.

Fore: Alternate term for "forward" or "ahead': originally nautical.
HEDP (High Explosive, Dual Purpose): A type of high-explosive
ammunition that includes an armor-penetrating capability.

Hellfire: Standard U.S. Army nickname for a type of air-to-ground
missiles.

HIND: NATO code-name for the Russian-built Mi-24 series of helicopters

IFV (Infantry Fighting Vehicle): Western equivalent of the Russian
BMP: an armored personnel carrier with a powerful armament It permits
an infantry squad to fight while riding the vehicle, or fight on foot
with the vehicle providing fire support not unlike a tank

IHADSS (Integrated Helmet and Display Sighting Sub-System): Pilot and
gunner's helmets that include position sensors and display monocle.

INS (Inertial Navigation System): A device that computes the current
location of a craft and displays this position to the pilot. It
generally includes a system for selecting a destination point and
displaying the proper course to reach that point.

IR (Infra Red): An area of the electromagnetic spectrum where sensors
detect heat instead of visible light.

Knots: A measure of velocity, in nautical miles per hour. 1 knot =
1.14 statue miles per hour.

Kilometers: Metric measure of distance, 1.609344 kilometers = 1 mile.

LZ (Landing Zone): An area of ground where airborne troops will land,
including paratroop drops and/or helicopter assaults.  Pork Left side
of a craft originally nautical.

SAM (Surface-to-Air Missile): A missile designed to destroy flying
craft

Sidewinder: Standard U.S. Air Force nickname for a type of IR-homing
air-to-air missiles (all AIM-9 missiles).

Skid: For a helicopter, "sideways" motion - motion not parallel to the
fuselage of the craft

Starboard: Right side of a craft originally nautical.

TADS (Target Acquisition & Designation System): An integrated system
for sighting and tracking targets that interfaces with weapons
themselves.

Torque: Rotational force in a turbine engine.

TOW (Tube-launched, Optically-guided, Wire-controlled): Standard U.S.
Army armor-piercing missile system of the 1960's and 1970's.

Translational Lift: Lift caused by motion of the entire helicopter as
opposed to lift caused by blades within the rotor.

VSI (Vertical Speed Indicator): Cockpit dial that shows the rate of
ascent or descent. If the craft is travelling level, the VSI is zero
(level).

ZSU (Zenitnaia Samokhodnaia Ustanovka - Self-propelled anti-aircraft
mount): Russian armored vehicle armed with anti-aircraft guns.
Popularly known as a "Zoo" by American servicemen.


NOTES

At MicroProse GUNSHIP was an enormously long and complex project that
took triple the estimated time and quadruple the original number of
people. Simulating low-level helicopter combat, especially on 8-bit
computers such as the C-64 or Apple II, was an outrageously complex
job. Each member of the design team played a crucial role in
developing this amazing simulation. Andy Hollis worked his optimizing
magic to create a 3-D graphics system that made hills "solid" and yet
ran fast enough for smooth real-time flight, not to mention his
realistic handling of helicopter flight mechanics. Expert artists
Michael Haire and Michele Mahan worked with programmer Gregg Tavares
to conjureup a superb cockpit and the many attractive starting and
ending screens. Gregg also contributed the missile flight logic. Sid
Meier pulled his usual rabbits out of hats when it came to handling
weapons logic and the "artificial intelligence" of the enemy, Credit
(or blame) for the concepts, research, game scenarios, and overall
coordination goes to Arnold Hendrick.

MicroProse could have taken the easy way out, like most software
publishers now jumping onto the "flight simulator" bandwagon. However,
we didn't want GUNSHIP to be another unrealistic arcade-style "shoot
`em up" that bears little resemblance to actual planes or helicopters.
For example, one "helicopter simulation" from a well known firm even
has the cyclic and collective controls reversed!

Instead, we spent the time and effort to make GUNSHIP a faithful and
realistic representation of the actual AH-64A, the most sophisticated
combat helicopter in the world. Unfortunately, this means GUNSHIP
cannot be played like an arcade game. Don't expect to immediately fly
around Western Europe blasting top quality Soviet troops off the map.

This simulation includes all the major systems and capabilities of the
actual AH-64A. The only major concession to playability we added was
the INS mapping system. The current AH-64A only has a simplified INS
system. On the actual machine the pilot does not have a computerized
map. He keeps a paper map in his lap, looks up coordinates on it, and
punches them into his digital unit, However, the latest AH-l variants
have a more sophisticated INS system similar to one shown here. It's
not unlikely that this will be added to the Apache too. As you can
see, it's extremely convenient!

In GUNSHIP the tasks of pilot and gunner are combined into one
activity and a single cockpit layout The battle area is about 80
square miles in size. In addition to showing the major terrain
features, such as hills, roads, and streams, the visibility logic
includes incidental ground cover such as bushes, trees, small rolls in
the ground, etc. in its internal calculations.

The actual AH-64A helicopter is quite new. Parts of it are still
secret MicroProse does not wish to compromise military security and
needlessly endanger the lives of gunship crews. We were careful to
research all information from unclassified sources. Although we talked
to real helicopter pilots, we did not solicit or use any classified
information, In some cases this forced us to make educated guesses,
rather than using hard data. However, a vast array of material about
modern weaponry and warfare has been published in the USA and abroad,
especially in England. In some cases our conclusions differ with the
public position of the United States Department of Defense and/or the
U.S. Army.

We're sure you'll enjoy the challenge of flying GUNSHIP, a "real"
combat simulation. Spread the word if you prefer the authenticity of
GUNSHIP, rather than unrealistic fast-action games Let us know and let
your software dealer know. Your purchasing dollar is your "vote" for
future products. Each enthusiast who buys GUNSHIP helps us create more
great simulations. This "dollar vote" is the real importance of
software piracy. People who use pirated copies literally discourage us
from producing future products of that type. Naturally we try to
discourage piracy, but your help and support is much appreciated.

Good flying in the Apache's happy hunting grounds. May you win the
Congres-sional Medal of Honor!

- the Gunship design team:
Arnold Hendrick Andy Hollis, Gregg Tavares and Sid Meier


CREDITS

Game Design:  Arnold Hendrick & Andy Hollis
Software Development: Andy Hollis, Gregg Tavares, Sid Meier
Software Graphics: Michael Haire, Michele Mahan, Kimberly Disney
Technical Advisors: William Force Jr., James Noe

Playtesting: Bruce Meier, Jim Karl, Alan Roireau, John Harris, Bill
Stealey, Guy Watkins, Steve Byrne, Frank Szilagyi

Documentation: Arnold Hendrick
Manual Graphics: Michael Haire, Kimberly Disney
Cover Painting: Ed Valigursky, David Phillips
Typography & Layout: The Composing Room, Inc.


COPYRIGHT NOTICE
COPYRIGHT (c)1986 BY MICROPROSE SOFTWARE INC., ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
This manual and the computer programs and audiovisuals on the
accompanying floppy disks, which are described by this manual. are
copyrighted and contain proprietary information belonging to
MICROPROSE SOFTWARE, INC.  No one may give or sell copies of this
manual or the accompanying disks or of listings of the programs on the
disks to any person or institution, except as provided for by the
written agreement with MICROPROSE SOFTWARE, INC.  No one may copy,
photocopy, reproduce, translate this manual or reduce it to machine
readable form, in whole or in part, without the prior written consent
of MICROPROSE SOFTWARE, INC. Any person/persons reproducing any
portion of this program, in any media, for any reason, shall be guilty
of Copyright Violation, and shall be subject to civil liability at the
discretion of the copyright holder.

WARRANTY AND LIABILITY

Neither MICROPROSE SOFTWARE, INC., nor any dealer or distributor makes
any warranty, express or implied. With respect to this manual, the
disk or any related item, their quality, performance, merchantability,
or fitness for any purpose. It is the responsibility solely of the
purchaser to determine the suitability of the products for any
purpose. To the origina t purchaser only, MICROPROSE SOFTWARE, IFJC
warrants the media to be free from defects in material for 90 days. If
during that period a defect should occur. the software may be returned
to MICROPROSE SOFTWARE, who will replace the media at no charge. If at
any time after the initial $10 day period your media becomes
defective, the media may be returned to MICROPROSE SOFTWARE for
replacement at a $10 service charge. To ensure identification the
original purchaser must complete and mail the Registration/Warranty
card enclosed in this product In no case will MlCROPROSE SOFTWARE,
INC. be held liable for direct, indirect or incidental
damages-resulting from any defect or omission in the manual, or other
related items and processes, including, but not limited to, any
interruption of service, loss of business, anticipated profil or other
consequential damages.

MICROPROSE
SIMULATION SOFTWARE
2 Market Place, Tetbury, Gloucestershire GL8 8DA
Tel:(O666)54326
Fax:(0666)54331
Tlx:43422MPS UK G
