THE SPECTRUM GAMES DATABASE

GYROSCOPE

PUBLISHER
Melbourne House

AUTHOR(S)
Catalyst Coders: Steve Lamb & Tony Mack

YEAR
1985

CATALOGUE NUMBER
MH 237

CATEGORY
Marble Madness-a-like

DESCRIPTION
You control a gyroscope trying to keep it on the surfaces on
screen. If you navigate off a surface you fall off and lose a
life. You have to successfully navigate numerous levels in the
game in this way. It uses a slightly odd-looking 3d view. Things
get more complicated in later levels as aliens attempt to knock
you off the ledges, or kill on contact.

CONTROLS
Q = Up         Z = Down
I = Left  P = Right
O = Abort Game ( keyboard or joystick )

Either the cursor keys or those outlined above should be chosen
from the main menu which appearson the screen before the start
of the game

Gyroscope is compatible with Kempston, Sinclair Interface 2 and
Cursor joysticks. To use the joystick you should make the
appropriate selection from the main menu which appears before the
start of the game

INSTRUCTIONS

ORIGINAL INLAY CARD TEXT
The player should manoeuvre the gyroscope from the top of each
course to the bottom. There are four screens per course and five
courses to negotiate in order to successfully complete the game.
Five types of obstacles stand in the way of your progress:

     Steep slopes
     Slippery glass
     Directional magnets
     Aliens
     Narrow ledges

When you reach the end of the course you must move onto the
character square which appears like this:

     [ Drawing of a grid with a black blob on it ]

Once the game has been successfully completed, there is a real
surprise in
store!

               o0o

The player has seven "lives" or gyroscopes with which to complete
the course, with an extra life for every 1000 points. If he falls
off the edge or hits an alien, the gyroscope will fall over and
the player will lose a 'life'. At the top of the screen is a
clock which ticks down. If this reaches zero, the gyroscope will
stop spinning and fall over, with the loss of one "life".  Play
will continue with a new gyroscope which will appear on the spot
at which the previous one fell over.

HINTS/CHEATS

SEQUELS/PREQUELS

SCORES RECEIVED

URLS

GENERAL FACTS

NOTES
Appeared around the same time as Bobby Bearing, Spindizzy.....and
100 other Marble Madness clones. This ( IMHO ) was not one of the
better ones.
