Heartland
from Odin Computer Graphics Ltd.

Playing Instructions
""""""""""""""""""""
Left, Right & Turn:                  X, C, V, B, etc
Through door out of screen:          A, S, D, F, etc
Through door into screen and jump:   Q, W, E, R, etc
Fire and use bed:                    1, 2, 3, 4, etc

Scenario
""""""""
  Attics are always pretty interesting places, all sorts of old family
heirlooms; swords, pictures, trunks, old clothes and books, can be
found waiting to be re-used, looked at or in, worn and read.
  One rainy day, having nothing better to do, you find yourself
rummaging through the relics in your Grandmother's attic and come
across an old battered book. The tale it contains is one of ancient
magic, telling of days when Wizards ruled and monsters roamed, it is
the history of the Heartland.
  As you read, invoking the book's subtle magic, you find yourself on
a quest, roaming the lands following the deeds of the Hero Wizard
Eldritch, whose plump appearance, top hat, and travelling bed are
ridiculed only by those foolish enough to want to be splattered by
a spell.
  In days gone by, Eldritch was well known for his ability to slay
dragons, rescue distressed damsels, and generally get up the nose of
his arch enemy, the dreaded black Warlock, Midan. These days, Eldritch
has moved on to other quests but, with an eye to the future, left the
book in our world to search for a new hero to help the Heartland in
times of dire trouble. As the book progresses, the magic has its way,
and the story changes to reveal current events.
  The Heartland, once a happy peaceful place, has fallen under the
cruel fist of the ruthless Midan and his minions, who roam the lands
working their evil ways, creating misery, hate, and building vast
glowering fortresses in which to imprison the populace.
  As the end of the book approaches you find that, alas, the final
chapter is missing and unless it is found, the Heartland will be in
the grip of the tyrannical Midan and his followers forever.
  Your desperate quest is to locate the last six pages and the
original book, cast to the seven winds by Midan in his final battle
with Eldritch. To foil any would be heroes, Midan has created six dark
pages which, if not destroyed, will cause great bad luck and havoc
(GBH) for the citizens of the Heartland for ever more.
  Beware of Midan's followers who are out to stop you, and the spells
they weave to distract you from your goal. Some of these spells will
wait until you walk into them before they invoke, others will seek you
out. The greatest danger is from Midan himself who has discovered your
presence in the Heartland. Even as you start your quest, his evil
magic is at work on the book, weakening its magic and limiting your
time in each land. Each time evil touches you, his strength will grow
and he will reveal his face
                            - THE FACE OF DEATH.

Spells
""""""
Top hat    : Your main weapon needs three shots to kill, but lasts
             forever.
Swords     : Takes two shots to kill.
Fireball   : One shot will do the job.
Bubbles    : Helps fight the growing strength of Midan.
Small stars: Make you immune to other spells.
Large stars: Drains your strength very quickly.
The Book   : You must collect this first as it tells you where the
             pages are.
Pages      : Collect six white and destroy six dark.
Bed        : After collecting a page, this will take you to the next
             land, don't lose it.

Enemies
"""""""
Wizards : Touching these sap your will, they also fire at it.
Gooch   : Killing thes is only an ephemeral solution.
Spacemen: Do Not Touch.
