                                               Sinclair Spectrum 16K or 48K RAM
        HORACE GOES SKIING
        ------------------

        from PSION
        with MELBOURNE HOUSE


HORACE GOES SKIING is a sequel to the very successful HUNGRY HORACE. The HORACE
series pioneers the idea of inter-active cartoons. Help Horace to slalom down
the mountain course between the flags and avoiding the trees -- but first he
must cross the busy roads to get to the ski slopes. A complex, colourful and
outstanding computer game.

Load and run by typing:

        LOAD "skiing"  [ENTER]

Before Horace can get to the ski-slopes he must fetch his skis from a hut on
the other side of the busy road. Horace will move in one of four directions
according to the keys you press:-

UP: "Q" key, DOWN: "Z" key,
LEFT: "I" key, RIGHT: "P" key

At the beginning of the game Horace has $40 to spend. If he is knocked down it
will cost him $10 in ambulance fees. After Horace has successfully crossed the
road, guide him into the door of the hut where he will fetch his skis. The
charge for ski hire is $10. Horace should not enter the ski hut unless he can
afford the hire charge. If Horace has spent all his money on ambulance fees,
then he can accumulate points and money by crossing the road repeatedly. At
every 1000 points boundary, Horace receives a $10 bonus. Horace should not
linger on the road longer than necessary since the traffic becomes
progressively more conjested. After fetching his skis Horace must return across
the road to the ski slopes.

In the second part of the game Horace must ski down the Hannekon run avoiding
the trees and slaloming between the red and blue pairs of flags. If Horace
fails to pass between the flags a warning note is sounded and Horace will lose
points. Horace can parallel left or right with the "I" and "P" keys as above
respectively. Horace increases his points by passing between the flags and he
can also receive a 100 points bonus by passing through the finish barrier. As
in the highway section, there is a $10 bonus at every 1000 point boundary. If
Horace should hit a tree then he can continue on the slope provided that his
skis do not break. If his skis do break then Horace must again cross the road
for a new set of skis and then return across the road to the ski slopes. If
Horace successfully completes the course with his skis intact then he must
cross the road once with his skis to the next slope.

You can pause the game at any time by pressing key 'S' and subsequently
continue by pressing any key along the bottom row. A game can be aborted and a
new game started by pressing keys 'G' and 'H' together.


Horace Goes Skiing includes sound effects. To amplify the sound from the
Spectrum, insert the lead between the microphone sockets of the Spectrum and
tape recorder. Ensure that there is no cassette in your recorder. Try setting
your recorder to record, or play, and in many cases the sound from the
Spectrum will be amplified through the loudspeaker of the recorder.

(c) Beam Software 1982
Made in U.K.


        LOADING THE PROGRAM

The procedure for loading a program is described in chapter 20 of the Spectrum
manual. The steps are summarised below.

1. Connect the ear socket on your Spectrum to the ear socket on your cassette
   recorder.
2. Position the tape before the beginning of the program that you wish to load.
3. Turn the volume control to 3/4 of maximum or to a level which you have found
   to be reliable on your recorder.
4. Type LOAD "skiing" and press the ENTER key.
5. Start the cassette recorder playing.

Psion cassettes for the Sinclair ZX Spectrum are designed to load over a very
wide range of volume and tone settings on your tape recorder. If you have any
difficulty, ensure that the head and pinch-roller of your tape recorder are
quite clean. Cleaning kits for this purpose are widely available.
