HOSTAGES
========

© INFOGRAMES 1990

An urgent phone call from the National Security Minister... 
an Embassy has been overun by a group of terrorists. As 
Head of the Terrorist Intervention Combat Team you are 
in control of all operations. First, you must place your 
crack marksmen in nearby buildings, taking them down the 
adjoining streets, avoiding infrared lights and the 
terrorists deadly aim. Secondly, you must get your team 
of Specialist Paratroopers onto the roof of the Embassy. 
Then, after descending by rope, and protected by your 
marksmen, enter the Embassy through the windows and begin 
your search in silence. But beware, each door, each room, 
could be a death trap! You must get the hostages, and your 
men, out of the building without any loss of life, and 
this will depend on the cohesion and co-ordination of 
your team. NOW ITS YOUR MOVE.


I - LOADING INSTRUCTIONS
------------------------

SPECTRUM

Disk version:
Insert the program disk in the drive. Switch on your 
computer. To start the program, select the LOADER option 
from the main menu and press the RETURN key.

Cassette version:
Check the all the connections. Insert the cassette in the 
recorder. Switch on your computer. Type LOAD"" and press 
the PLAY button on your recorder and the RETURN key.

AMSTRAD 6128/664/464

Disk version:
Insert the program disk in the drive. Switch on your 
computer. Type |CPM (to get |, press the keys @ and 
SHIFT simultaneously). Press ENTER.

Cassette version:
Insert the cassette in the recorder. Switch on your 
computer. Type RUN"" and press the PLAY button on your 
recorder and the RETURN key.

Note for SPECTRUM 48K and AMSTRAD 464-664 users:
To load the cassette in order to access the marksmen and 
the newspapers of the second part, remember to write down 
the number on the counter of the recorder.

COMMODORE 64

Cassette version:
Switch on your computer and monitor. Insert the cassette 
in the recorder. Press the keys SHIFT and RUN/STOP 
simultaneously. Then press PLAY on the recorder. The 
program will load and start automatically. Think of 
writing down the number on the counter in order to 
locate the first and second part of the game.

Disk version:
On a C128 type GO 64. Then confirm by pressing Y, then 
RETURN Insert the disk in the drive. Type : LOAD"*",8,1 and 
press RETURN. The program will load and start automatically.

COMMODORE 128

Switch on your computer and monitor. Switch to C64 mode 
(GO 64), then follow the instructions for C64.

MSX 1 & MSX 2

Cassette version:
Check all the connections. Insert the cassette in the 
recorder. Switch on the computer. Type RUN "CAS:". Press 
the PLAY button on the recorder and the RETURN Key.


II - INTRODUCTION
-----------------

A) SCENARIO

Innocent people have been taken hostage from under your nose, 
and the terrorists have abandoned their cars and entered the 
Embassy. Unfortunately they now control the whole building 
from the 1st to the 3rd floor. The number of hostages that 
have been taken is controlled by the story and the level of 
difficulty you have chosen for your mission. You are the boss 
of 6 men of the Direct Intervention Combat Team (D.I.C.T.). 
It's your turn now...!

Note: You can at any moment interrupt the introduction sequence 
to access the game by hitting a special key.

On the SPECTRUM version, press the BREAK key; on the AMSTRAD 
and MSX versions the ESCAPE key.

B) CONFIGURATION OF THE COMMANDS ON SPECTRUM, AMSTRAD & MSX

a) SPECTRUM 128

You have to configurate your keyboard or choose a type of 
joystick. After the introduction sequence, a menu opens on 
the screen. You may choose:

1 Define Keyboard: if you want to play with the keyboard. For 
  this purpose press key 1 on the keyboard.

2 Joystick Sinclair: if you want to play with a SINCLAIR type 
  joystick, press 2.

3 Joystick KEMPSTON: if you want to play with a KEMPSTON type 
  joystick, press 3.

If you have chosen the keyboard, you will have to select the 
keys corresponding to the following commands: 
	direction "Right" 
	direction "Left" 
	direction "Down" 
	direction "Up" 
	action "Fire"
	action "Menu map" (access to the map during the game, 
			   2nd part only)

To do this (according to your choice), press the key that you 
want to select for the desired command. When you have completed 
the selection, you will have to confirm it by pressing Y or 
cancel by pressing N when the message "Are you sure (Y/N)?" 
appears on the screen. However if you have choosen the joystick, 
you will have to determine nevertheless one key for the action 
"Menu map" (only for the 2nd part). All the same you will be 
asked to confirm your selection.

Note: in the SPECTRUM & MSX version, you cannot select the 
SHIFT key as it is used for the marksmen.

b) AMSTRAD

The procedure is the same as for SPECTRUM, but you will have 
the choice between only two options.

1 Define keyboard
2 Joystick (regardless of type).

For the rest, procede the same way as you would for the 
SPECTRUM version.

c) MSX 1 & 2

The procedure is the same, but you are given the choice 
between two options only:

1 Define keyboard
2 Joystick (regardless of type).

For the rest, procede the same way as you would for the 
SPECTRUM version.


III - CHOICE OF MISSION
-----------------------

The difficulty level of the game determines the duration of the 
ultimatum, the number and the aggressiveness of the terrorists 
and their reaction time. You can choose one of the following 
from the first menu:

LIEUTENANT: With a low number of terrorists with weak 
	    aggression.
CAPTAIN:    The number of terrorists increases and so does 
            their speed of reaction.
COMMANDER:  Number of terrorists and the number of hostages 
            taken are at their maximum. The player must without 
            mistake and taking particular attention to the 
            placement and coordination of his combat team.

From the second menu you can choose either:

	TRAINING (there are no hostages),
	TARGET,
	ULTIMATUM,
	RESCUE,
	ASSAULT.

The more difficult the mission, the less time you have to complete 
it. For choosing, use the keys UP and DOWN (or £ and - on C64) or 
the joystick. Then press the fire button or space bar.


IV - FIRST PART
---------------

A) POSITIONING YOUR MARKSMEN

You have 3 marksmen at your disposal. To effectively keep watch on 
the 3 sides of the building, the men must stay all night in the best 
postions possible. You control the marksmen one by one. When you 
control a marksman his name and number will appear on the screen. 
The three marksmen DELTA, ECHO, MIKE can be moved with the aid of 
the keys indicated as follows:

Spectrum ............ SHIFT 1, SHIFT 2, SHIFT 3
Amstrad  ............ 1, 2, 3 on the number pad
C64 ................. 1, 2, 3
MSX ................. SHIFT 1, SHIFT 2, SHIFT 3

To change to another D.I.C.T man, first make him hide then:

Spectrum: access the plan (action key "Fire" or the Fire button and 
not the MENU MAP key which is active in the second part only), then 
select the man with SHIFT 1, SHIFT 2, SHIFT 3.

Amstrad: access the plan (action key "Fire" or the Fire button), 
         then select the man with 1,2,3 on the number pad.
C64:     select the man with 1. 2. 3.
MSX:     as for SPECTRUM.

B) GENERAL PLAN

On the plan, you will see the places where you must position your 
men to keep watch on the 3 sides of the Embassy. These places are 
shown by CROSSES. When you want to see how far one of your men 
has progressed, you switch to the plan mode with the FIRE key 
(Amstrad, Spectrum, MSX) or pressing directly his number on C64 
(as seen before).

His body will then appear on the map to indicate where he is 
(on C64 a square will appear).

In the SPECTRUM 48 KB and AMSTRAD 464-664 versions, the man will 
appear represented by his identity number.

C) MOVEMENT COMMANDS

You must avoid having your men spotted by the spot lights of the 
terrorists. As soon as one of your men has been spotted the 
terrorists will open fire and can then eliminate one member of 
the combat team. In order to avoid being spotted and to arrive 
at the right places (marked by crosses on the map), you have 
several movements at your disposal by using either the joystick 
or the keyboard.

On C64:

 keyboard	joystick		
 ^		RIGHT		walk to the right	
 *		LEFT		walk to the left	
 =		DOWN		to lay on the floor	
 £		UP		to hide	
 = + ^		DOWN+RIGHT	forward roll to the right }	only if you are in
 = + *		DOWN+LEFT	forward roll to the left  } 	a standing position
 = + ^		DOWN+RIGHT	crawl right		  }	only if you are
 = + *		DOWN+LEFT	crawl left		  }	lying on the floor
 Space + ^	FIRE+RIGHT	run to the right	
 Space + *	FIRE+LEFT	run to the left	

On AMSTRAD, SPECTRUM and MSX:

The direction DOWN will be used to leave a hiding place by the 
door or a window, the FIRE key allows you to stop immediately 
when walking. The other commands are identical to those of the 
of C64 cursor key version. Use the keys that you have defined 
at the beginning or the Joystick.

Return to the plan: This is only possible when you are hidden 
inside a building, behind a door or window. Press ESC on C64 
- FIRE on SPECTRUM, AMSTRAD and MSX.

In this mode: SHIFT 1 - SHIFT 2 - SHIFT 3 to select Delta, 
Echo, or Mike on Spectrum and MSX; 1, 2, 3 on the number pad 
on AMSTRAD; 1, 2, 3 on C64.

D) SPECIAL INDICATIONS FOR C64

If you take, when moving the man, direction UP (joystick or 
keyboard), your marksman heads automatically to the next 
hiding piace in his direction, in order to protect himself 
from the terrorists' shots.

If your leave your marksman a few seconds uncovered without 
using the joystick or keyboard, he heads automatically to the 
next hiding place in his direction.

If you move a marksman and press quickly the FIRE button or 
space bar, he will run in the given direction. As soon as he 
runs, release the FIRE button or space bar. He will be able to 
effect rolls all the same. When you stop giving a direction, 
he will stop, too.

E) END OF SEQUENCE

When all your men are in position on their crosses. (If all 
your men are dead start again). On Spectrum, Amstrad and MSX 
press RETURN, to access the second part; DELETE to start this 
part over again. In the latter, you will have to reselect or 
confirm your selection of the difficulty level and mission 
(see Choice of mission).

On C64 press RETURN to access the second part. Press FIRE or 
SPACE to start this part over again. Note: If you give a 
direction with the joystick or keyboard, the game continues 
and you can move your marksmen again to take a better 
position.

For information: there is no need to place one man on each 
cross. You can have less than 3 marksmen surviving this part, 
or two or three marksmen on the same cross keeping watch on 
only one side of the embassy.

F) HELICOPTER (does not exist in the C64 version)

When all your surviving men are in place in the interior 
of the buildings adjoining the Embassy, you pass 
automatically to the sequence of the helicopter, where it 
will place 3 men on the Embassy roof. On the SPECTRUM and 
AMSTRAD versions this sequence will only appear on the 
128 KB versions.


V - SECOND PART
---------------

On the versions AMSTRAD, SPECTRUM and MSX, you will be 
asked to turn over the disk or cassette and to press the 
Fire button to load the second part

A) POSITIONING ON THE ROOF

GENERAL PLAN OF THE SITUATION: SPECTRUM 128KB, AMSTRAD 128KB,
MSX, C64 When accessing this part, you enter directly the 
plan mode. The D.I.C.T. men whom you have managed to hide are 
shown by their corresponding number on the adjoining buildings 
(SPECTRUM 128KB, MSX, AMSTRAD 128KB) The men on the Embassy 
roof are likewise shown by numbers.

Their code names are visualized with 4, 5, 6 on C64 and 
SHIFT 1, SHIFT 2, SHIFT 3 on Spectrum and MSX, and 1, 2, 3 on
the number pad on Amstrad. On the C64 version, the men are 
shown by crosses.

B) TO MOVE A D.I.C.T. MAN

Just press the function key corresponding to the code of that 
D.I.C.T. man. (On C64 you can also take the direction UP/DOWN
with your joystick or the key £ or =. You can then see the 
menu on the lower right of the screen, listing the code names 
of your men. Press the space bar or FIRE button to select a 
man.) You can move the cross respresenting your man over the 
roof and its edges with the cursor keys or the joystick (or * 
and ^ on C64). The cross must appear on the edge of the roof. 
The man is then ready to descend and to start this operation 
you must press <- on C64 or the key MENU MAP on AMSTRAD, 
SPECTRUM and MSX. You will pass to abseiling mode. The map 
can be called up at any time by pressing the MENU MAP key 
(<- on C64). You can also change from one man to another at 
any time.

Game mode: when controllling a marksmen, either in abseiling 
mode or inside the building, you are in game mode.

Important: in the game mode, there is no need to call the 
general plan to change from one marksmen to another. Just 
press the number key corresponding to the men. This 
changement will be symbolized by a video effect.

C) EMERGENCY SITUATION

When one of your team, either inside the building or while 
abseiling, finds himself in a delicate situation (e.g. the 
presence of terrorists in the same room or in one of the 
adjoining rooms), the man's code on the control board will 
begin flashing and this indicates an emergency situation. 
The player must then change to that person in danger by 
pressing the appropriate function key. If you wait too 
long, your man could be neutralized by the terrorists.

D) ABSEILING

(Only on the 128KB versions. On the SPECTRUM 48KB and 
AMSTRAD 464-664 versions, the D.I.C.T. men appear in 
a room of the 3rd floor.)

When one of your men is in position on one side of the 
building, he can then be used for abseiling down the wall 
and then enter the Embassy. In order to play him press <-
on C64 or the MENU MAP key on AMSTRAD and SPECTRUM. 
You are then in the DESCENDING MODE.

There are three movements at your disposal.

1) PUSHING AWAY FROM THE WALL = FIRE: In order to extend 
his legs (so he is pushing away from the wall) press the 
space bar or fire button (C64) or the corresponging key 
on AMSTRAD, SPECTRUM & MSX; when you think you have 
applied enough force so as to push yourself away from the 
wall, release the button, to go immediately to phase 2.

2) OPENING MODE = RIGHT: In order to descend, the rope must 
slide along the body. To achieve this you have to let go of 
the rope (by pressing cursor right or joystick right). Your 
player will then descend the wall. However do not wait too 
long to stop, as due to his increasing speed of descent your 
player will a ash to the floor.

3) STOPPING = LEFT: When you want to break through a window 
to enter the Embassy or if you want to stop on the wall, move 
joystick left or cursor left. The player's right hand will 
then take hold of the rope stopping his descent.

TO CLIMB IN CASE OF FAILURE: Direction UP (or £ on C64 
keyboard). You can dimb by using a mechanical pulley attached 
to the roof (use direction UP). You will then see your man 
climb the wall of the Embassy.

DON'T FORGET! You can at any time change from one person to 
another, just by pressing the appropriate function key. For 
example you could now go to one of the marksman which you 
have placed on the roof of one of the adjoining buildings.
On AMSTRAD, SPECTRUM, MSX, first press the MENU MAP key.

E) USING YOUR MARKSMAN

By pressing the corresponding keys you move one of your 
marksman into position. Each marksman watches one side of 
the building.

THE PRESENTATION: You will see your marksman in position 
ready to kill. To move the gun sight, use the direction keys 
or the joystick.

When you pass on a window, a white dot will apppear on your 
sight. This means you are ready to eliminate a terrorist. 
Behind the window will appear (according to the patrols of 
the terrorists) shadows and figures. These can also represent 
hostages who are prisoners in that room. If you are ready to 
fire, press FIRE (space bar or fire button on C64). Your gun 
will load itself automatically.

If you want to change wall and marksman you press the 
appropriate function key. You can pass (if desired) to the 
men on the roof or the men in the Embassy. You have to be 
careful not to eliminate a member of your combat team or 
one of the hostages.

F) EXPLORING THE ROOMS 

a) MINI-MAP

If you decide to play with one of the men inside the 
building, you pass into EXPLORATION mode. To show where you 
are there is a mini-map on the right side of the screen (on 
the left on C64). Depending on which floor, the mini-map 
will show all the rooms and corridors. Your position is 
shown by a small white arrow (light blue on C64). It does 
not only show your position but also your direction of 
sight.

On C64 the terrorist are shown in black, and the hostages 
in white.

On SPECTRUM and MSX, the hostages are shown by crosses, 
the terrorists by rhombuses, and the D.I.C.T. men by 
squares.

On AMSTRAD, the hostages are shown by white dots, the 
terrorists by green dots, and the D.I.C.T. men by blue 
dots.

b) MOVEMENT

You can use either the keys or the joystick.

In the corridor:				  	C64 keyboard
 To move in the direction of sight	direction UP	     £
 To pivot at 90° to the right		direction RIGHT	     ^
 To pivot at 90° to the left		direction LEFT	     *
 To turn around				direction DOWN	     =

SPECTRUM, AMSTRAD and MSX keyboard: The keys that you 
have selected at the beginning of the game.

If you want to enter a room, place yourself in front of the 
door and step forward (direction UP). In a room you mainly 
move to the left and right. The directions UP and DOWN are 
of use only when there is a door before or behind you and 
you want to go into another room or the corridor.

G) AN ENCOUNTER WITH THE TERRORISTS 

On C64:
When you encounter one or more terrorists, you can pass into 
FIRE mode, by pressing the space bar or FIRE button. At that 
moment by using the commands LEFT/RIGHT you move your machine 
gun to point towards the terrorists, remembering to keep the 
fire button or space bar pressed. On C64 you may also set 
the shooting height with the commands UP/DOWN. The man with 
the fastest and best aim will win the battle.

To move again, release the space bar then use the direction 
commands. Remember this if you want to escape quickly.

On AMSTRAD-SPECTRUM-MSX:
You pass into fire mode by pressing the fire button or the 
fire action key. A cursor will appear symbolizing the point 
of impact of your shot. Move it with the joystick or the keys. 
When you release the fire button or action key, you stop 
shooting and you can move your D.I.C.T. again; for during the 
shooting phase you are not able to move the character.

H) ENCOUNTER WITH THE HOSTAGES

Once you have eliminated all the terrorists on one floor you 
can then rescue the hostage(s). You walk into the room where 
they are kept. Place yourself in front of one of them. You 
must guide him (only one at a time; he will follow you) to 
a room on the 3rd floor which doesn't have any windows. When 
they are in that room, the hostages are in a more secure 
place.. When you have succeded in freeing all the hostages, 
the game ends. However in certain missions, a terrorist may 
come into that room to take them again. You will then have 
to protect the hostages and neutralize the terrorists.

I) ENCOUNTER BETWEEN, TERRORIST, HOSTAGES AND D.I.C.T. MEN

If you encounter in a room or corridor, a terrorist with 
a hostage, you will have to neutralize the terrorist without 
wounding the hostage. No mistake will be tolerated. Your 
mission will be 100% successful only if all the hostages are 
freed alive.

Tip: on C64
Remember to progress silently (avoid useless shots). You 
will avoid to be spotted by terrorists.


VI - END OF THE GAME
--------------------

The game has ended when:

TOTAL SUCCESS: If you have regrouped all the hostages in the 
3rd floor without windows or if you have neutralized all the 
terrorists present in the Embassy.

FAILURE: All the members of your team have been neutralized 
by the terrorists.

If your situation is between the two mentioned above (maybe 
you have lost some of your men, or you have not rescued all 
the hostages), the comments and scores you have achieved 
will be shown on the front page of the paper and the end 
of the game.

At the final screen, press the fire button to display 
a newspapers article.

C64: If you want to play again, press the fire button or 
space bar to display a mini-menu. Follow the instructions 
fining to your choice. To play the second part again 
press 2. To start another game and go back to the starting 
menu press 1.

On AMSTRAD, SPECTRUM and MSX: Press the FIRE button or 
action key, to play the second part again.


CREDITS

ORIGINAL IDEA: 	Philippe AGRIPNIDIS 
SCENARIO: 	Philippe AGRIPNIDIS, Pascal BUREL, Daniel CHARPY, 
		Eric MOTTET, Najib EL MAADANI, Josyane GIRARD,
		Tuan DO CAO
PROGRAMMING: 	Daniel CHARPY, Pascal BUREL, Najib EL MAADANI, 
		Tuan DO CAO, Philippe CAMPION 
MAIN GRAPHICS:  Josyane GIRARD
GRAPHICS: 	Didier CHANFRAY, Dominique GIROU 

AMSTRAD, SPECTRUM and MSX versions: NEW FRONTIER SOFTWARE 

PROGRAMMING: 	Isidro GILABERT 
GRAPHICS: 	Juan José FRUTOS & Alberto José GONZALEZ 
MUSIC: 		Alberto José GONZALEZ
