THE SPECTRUM GAMES DATABASE

INTENSITY

PUBLISHER
Graftgold

AUTHOR(S)
Original by Andrew Braybrook, converted by Steve Turner, 
graphics by John Cumming

YEAR
?

CATEGORY
Arcade

DESCRIPTION
Looking a bit like Uridium, abstract and hard to describe game
action game without shooting.

KEYS:
A - up
Z - down
L - left
K - right
SPACE - land skimmer

This looks weird, but in fact it's good old Q-A-O-P-space shifted
a bit down left.  Alternatively, you can press Fire on your
favourite joystick to use it.


INSTRUCTIONS

You are rescuing some abstract objects (balls?) from abstract
lasers.  You control a skimmer (daisy-wheel shaped) and by
landing on some place you control a drone as well (as you land,
drone moves to the point where you touched ground). Watch out,
drone and skimmer destroy each other when they touch! Also, there
are some walls that can destroy skimmer/drone when they hit them,
especially in higher levels. Now, there are several slots, which
open and a ball comes out of them. When the ball reaches the
drone (which has some kind of gravity to attract the balls, but
the balls can move only on the ground), it's "rescued", and from
a place with arrows all round a R - shaped sprite. Collect it
with the skimmer, because it's a funds you can use to pay new
skimmers/drones when you lose them. And now for the enemies.
There are some cross-shaped aliens, which aren't any harmful
(drone and skimmer can destroy them just by touching them), but
they turn to some kind of beetles from time to time (these are
still destroyable), which can jump at the ball, and turn into
something, which is harmful to the drone and the skimmer. So, you
have to ballance between moving the drone, colleting the R's and
destroying potential enemies. Sometimes there's a change of the
enemy of the first kind to a larger cross-shaped thing (with a
cocoon interphase).  This cross is lethal to the skimmer and
follows it, so destroy the cocoons before. When you rescue enough
balls, you can drive the drone to the place with arrows, which
will start to flash and "EXIT NOW" label appears. (I.e., move
with the skimmer there, land and move somewhere else, the drone
will fly there.) Then you go to another level. If you wait with
this exiting, and keep collecting new balls, you can get to
different levels. Sometimes a key appears instead of the R,
collect it, and you can exit at once. I know this looks
complicated, but when you get into it, it's splendid.

URLS
http://drson.vse.cz/snapsearch?jmeno=intensity

GENERAL FACTS

NOTES
