INTO THE EAGLES NEST

PUBLISHER
Pandora

AUTHOR
Kevin Parker & Robin Chapman

YEAR
1986.

DESCRIPTION
A game of the Gauntlet genre. Set in a German Castle, you are an
English soldier, set to rescue 3 prisoners held there.

<From back Sleeve>
You were briefed at eleven.  They told you you're the best.  You
handle the worst jobs, the delicate jobs - the messy jobs no-one
else will risk taking.  That's why you're here.  Your mission -
to infiltrate and destroy the stronghold of a top enemy commander
which serves as temporary barracks and armoury for the divisions
under him - to rescue three fellow saboteurs held prisoner in the
bowels of the fortress - to steal back as many antiquities as
possible from the commander's private collection. So you're the
best.  Prove it.

CONTROLS:
Kempston, Sinclair or Cursor Joysticks
Keyboard:          - Fully Redefinable

INSTRUCTIONS
Brief:
Six key German divisions are in your area - the main force is
believed to be quartered in the fortress codenamed "Eagle's
Nest". Three saboteurs sent to destroy the Eagle's Nest have been
captured. The third managed to set up a network of explosives at
key points throughout the fortress, but was captured before they
could be detonated. It is up to you to rescue them and destroy
the Eagle's Nest...

Objectives:
Infiltrate the fortress and rescue the three captives before they
break under torture.  It is your aim to cause maximum havoc and
confusion before finding and detonating the hidden explosive on
all eight floors.  Whilst doing so it is in your interests to
recover as many art treasures and jewels as possible from the
commander's private collection.

CHEATS:
Enter the following names onto the scoreboard for good stuff:
DAS MAP - Map Mode
DAS CHT - Cheat Mode / Infy Lives
DAS NME - No Enemies
MAP OFF - Turn off Map Mode

URL
ftp://ftp.dcc.uchile.cl/pub/OS/sinclair/snapshots/e/eagle.zip

NOTES
An enjoyable blast with surprisingly good graphics for a
Spectrum.  There are enhanced effects in 128k mode (Music, etc.)
