JASPER

A cartoon arcade adventure for the 48k Spectrum by Derek Brewster

JASPER was very worried - the world had gone too far this time. He'd gone
for a walk minding his own business when the Furt had Wangled. Now every
creature and even some of the vegetation was a danger to him. Until now 
he'd never believed all that nonsense his Old Mother used to give him at 
bed-time ...

"Beware the Wangling of the Furt, my son, for then the jungle goes all 
odd!" - he'd always thought her a bit out to lunch herself - "At such a
time the flowers may spring your heels. Jars of potion protect or project.
To save death from a weed, killer sprays you will need... "- Limerick mode
... he hated this bit - "Ropes in coils will aid your toils, you will not
be shot if Flag you have got, if falling's yourfolly then open your brolly
..." She WAS off her trolley... and when she got HIM doing it he KNEW it
was time he pretended to be asleep!

But now he wished he had heard her through. Penitent at having doubted his
Old Mum, he decided to go home and sleep this one off. He fumbled in his
pocket for the front door key... and found a hole instead. Stay calm... he
counted to ten, and got stuck at four. His tummy rumbled - he must finf 
food soon. Everything was against him. He wanted his Old mum!

A killer-bunny hopped amiably towards him as, armed only with a total lack
of resolve, he set off in search of his key, his home, and safety...

To load, press J key and holding down red SYMBOL SHIFT, press P key twice.
Screenshould show LOAD "". Press ENTER and start playing the cassette.

NB: JASPER has a special loader - do not be concerned if the usual striped
border does not appear.

CONTROLS

		A		Left
		S		Right
		Y to P		Up/jump/release rope
		H to ENTER	Down/duck
		B to SPACE	Pick up/hold onto rope
		1 to 5		Use object in box number 1 to 5
		Q to T+1 to 5	Drop object in box number 1 to 5
		6 to 0		Music on/off

JASPER is a cartoon adventure containig 22 screens each with their own
particular combination of problems and dangers. Objects can be collected 
and redistributed for later use. Up to 5 can be carried at any time 
(remember that holding a rope counts as carrying an object). There is no
single way of getting through, and some screens need to be visited more 
than once. JASPER is less about fast reactions and more about clever
planning, quick thinking and accurate control. It represents a new high in
its unique melding of cartoon animation, adventure structure and multiple
screen arcade game concepts. Reaching the end will require a great deal of
practice and discovery... we challenge you!



This program is protected by copyright. Unauthorised copying, lending or
hiring is prohibited
Micromega, 230-236 Lavender Hill, London SW11 1LE
