JOE BLADE 2
(Players)


SPECTRUM LOADING INSTRUCTIONS
48K owners type LOAD "" (ENTER). Load the game from side A of the
cassette. 128K owners use the LOADER option on the menu. The 128K
version is recorded on side B. This version includes 128K music.


THE STORY

The year is 1995, the setting London. The streets are crawling with
punks, thugs and muggers! The ordinary urbanite masses remain
prisoners in their crumbling homes, too terrified to venture outside
into the crime-ridden inner-city horrorscape beyond their front doors.

Only one man can clean up this city ... That man is JOE BLADE.

Joe Blade - teenage pin-up and pop idol, media celebrity, hero of the
people, defender of the flag, helper to those less fortunate than
himself. Mean, tough and fearless, his very name strikes fear into the
cold hearts of every punk, thug and mugger.


THE MISSION

You are Joe Blade ... Using only your skills of hand-to-hand combat
you must clean up the city.

The punks wear armour to protect themselves from each other, so in
order to kill a punk you must kick him in the head. This is achieved
by jumping over him (not too easy, as the punks like jumping too). You
do not have to kill all the punks; one you have killed about 100 the
remaining punks will get the message, and repent of their evil deeds,
and become decent law-abiding citizens.

Not only must you kill your daily quota of punks, you must also rescue
sixteen citizens who have foolishly ventured onto the streets. To rescue
a citizen you must walk into them, then solve one of four sub-games.

Sub-game one
You must complete the sequence 1,2,3,4 by pressing FIRE when the
correct number appears. Be careful, you cannot select a number when it
is fading out.

Sub-game two
As with sub-game one you must complete the sequence 1,2,3,4. However,
this time by swapping numbers. Press FIRE when the desired pair of
numbers are flashing.

Sub-game three
In this sub-game you are presented with two sets of jumbled numbers.
You only have to complete one 1,2,3,4 sequence, either top or bottom,
by swapping numbers between the two. When the desired pair of number
icons are flashing press FIRE.

Sub-game four
In sub-game four you are presented with an ever-changing number icon
and four jumbled numbers. The object of this sequence is to swap the
changing number with the flashing number to form the sequence 1,2,3,4.
When the desired pair of number icons are flashing press FIRE.

Scattered around the city you may find items such as bins and clocks
which will help you in your mission. Press 1 on the menu for more
information.


CONTROLS

This mission supports Kempston, Cheetah, Interface II, +2 and +3
joysticks. Alternatively use Q,A,O,P and M. SPACE will pause the game
(you cannot pause during sub-games).



JOE BLADE CREDITS
Game code and graphics: Colin Swinbourne
128K version technical support: Kevin Parker & Andy 'DM' Severn
Original music: Mike Brown
Music conversion: Andy 'DM' Severn
Textuals and shots: Simon 'SKY' Daniels


LOADAGAME CREDITS
Game code: Andy 'DM' Severn
Graphics: Martin 'Jabba' Severn
Original Loadagame (C64): Andrew Challis


Produced for Players Software by Richard Paul Jones
(c) 1988 Players
