Jumping Jack

Jumping Jack knows a rhyme, a four verse limerick.
Unfortunately he is unwilling to recite it unless you help
him scale the levels to the top of the screen. Only by
helping him through all twenty screens will you learn the
entire rhyme. For each screen completed he will tell you
two lines.

Jack is faced with eight layers initially containing only two
moving gaps, the gap moving leftwards travels upwards
whilst the gap moving to the right travels downwards.
Jack must jump through the gaps above him whilst
avoiding falling through the gaps below.
Jack can only move upwards by jumping through the
gap above but he can also move left and right. Should he
run off the edge of the screen he will wrap around to the
other edge. Should he fall down a layer he will bang his
head and remain unconscious for a period of time during
which he cannot move. Every time he arrives at the
bottom of the screen unconscious he loses a life.
At each successful jump a new gap appears at random -
the first three new gaps descend then the next three
ascend - up to a maximum of eight gaps. On making a
successful jump at the top layer the 'next level' sequence
is entered, and the next part of the rhyme is given.
Hazards will begin to appear after the first level - one
initially, then two right up to a maximum of twenty, one
for each level completed. They all ascend and if Jack
collides with a hazard he will be knocked unconscious.

Please turn over














SCORING: After each completion of each verse of the
poem (a four verse limerick) a new life is awarded.
Scoring is by successful jumps and progressively more
points are awarded at each new level.
HOW TO MOVE JACK:
Jump           CAPS SHIFT
Left           SYMBOL SHIFT
Right          SPACE
Hold           'Z' KEY
JUMPING JACK will work with any ZX SPECTRUM.
LOADING: Place the cassette into your tape recorder
with the printed side facing upwards. Ensure that a lead
goes from the ear socket on the SPECTRUM to the EAR
socket on the recorder and that the MIC socket is
disconnected. Rewind the tape to the beginning. Type
one of the following LOAD""<ENTER>
The word LOAD is obtained by depressing the J key, and
the quotes by depressing the SYMBOLIC SHIFT and P
keys simultaneously. <ENTER> means to press the key
marked ENTER.
Also note that there is no space between the two quotes
in this method. Press play on the recorder. If loading is
successful a flashing message will appear on the screen
after several seconds. The process is entirely automatic
from there on. If problems are experienced adjust your
volume control and try again or re-read chapter six of
your introductory manual.

PROGRAM CODING by Albert Ball
GRAPHIC DESIGN & ILLUSTRATION by Steve Blower

Jumping Jack (C) 1983 by Imagine Software. The game Jumping Jack, its program code, game
mechanics, audio-visual presentation and documentation are protected by National and International
copyright laws. The distribution and sale of this product are intended for the use of the original
purchase only and for use only on the computer system specified. Lawful users of this program are
hereby licensed only to read the program from its medium into memory of the computer for the
purpose of executing the program. This product may not be stored, translated, transmitted,
reproduced or distributed in any form or by any means or offered for hire or for sale on any optional
buy back basis without the express written permission of Imagine Software. All rights of author and
owner reserved worldwide. Jumping Jack is a registered trademark of Imagine Software.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Original transcribed by Robin Stuart.
Edited with original ZX Spectrum instructions by Frode Tennebø, 20090107.
