Manic Miner (c) 1983 Bug-Byte Software Ltd 
------------------------------------------

INSTRUCTIONS FOR MANIC MINER

Author: Mathew Smith

MANIC MINER will run on any 48K Spectrum
To load MANIC MINER, simply enter:
LOAD ""

- then hit the ENTER key and follow the computer's prompts.
Leave the tape running until the game starts up.

THE GAME

Miner Willy, while prospecting down Surbiton way, stumbles
upon an ancient, long forgotten mine-shaft. On further
exploration, he finds evidence of a lost civilisation far
superior to our own, which used automatons to dig beep into
the Earth's core to supply the essential raw materials for
their advanced industry. After centuries of peace and
prosperity, the civilisation was torn apart by war, and
lapsed into a long dark age, abandoning their industry and
machines. Nobody, however, thought to tell the mine robots
to stop working, and through countless aeons they had
steadily accumulated a hugh stockpile of valuable metals
and minerals, and Miner Willy realises that he now has the
opportunity to make his fortune by finding the underground
store. Can YOU take the challenge and guide Willy through
the undergraound caverns to the surface and riches. In
order to move to the next chamber, you must collect all the
flashing keys in the room while avoiding nasties like
POISONOUS PANSIES and SPIDERS and SLIME and worst of all,
MANIC MINING ROBOTS. When you have all the keys, you can
enter the portal which will now be flashing. The game ends
when you have been 'got' or fallen heavily three times.

GAME CONTROL

Three keys are used to control the game:

Q,E,T,U or O   - Move left
W,R,Y,I or P   - Move right
Shift to space - Jump

AlSO KEMPSTON JOYSTICK COMPATIBLE

If you enjoy this game, look out for other Bug-Byte programs
at you local computer shop, branches of BOOTS, W.H. Smiths,
or in our advertising in the computer press and elsewhere.

Think you can write a better game than this? We'd love to
see it. Send a copy n cassette to:

The Programming Department, Bug-Byte,
Mulberry ouse, Canning Place, Liverpool, L1 8JB

For free appraisal of its worth, without any obligation to
donate the program to our range. Or simply send a A.A.E. for
details of our terms for contributed programs.

(c) Bug-Byte 1983
------------------------------------------------------------

The program "MANIC MINER" its documentation and artwork are
strictly the copyright of Bug-Byte. It is illegal to make a
copy of MANIC MINER without authorisation from Bug-Byte and
legal action will be taken against anyone found doing so. It
is also illegal, and expressly forbidden, to lend or hire
out the program by way of trade.

------------------------------------------------------------

Complete Instructions typed in by Paul Thompson, April 2003