MARBLE MADNESS(TM)
THE GAME


HOW TO PLAY THE GAME

The game, on side A of the cassette, contains 30 playing screens and is
loaded as follows:

1. Place the cassette in your player, making sure it is rewound to the 
start and that the EAR socket of your Spectrum is connected to that of the
tape player, as detailed in the Spectrum manual.

2. Enter the command LOAD "" then press the ENTER key, Spectrum 128 and 
Plus 2 users may use the 'Tape Loader' option instead.

3. Start the tape player. The game will now load automatically.

4. In case of difficulty, alter the volume level and consult your Spectrum
manual.

5. In the most unlikely event of a genuine fault, please return the 
complete package to Melbourne House Publishers. We will gladly replace it.
PLEASE DO NOT RETURN IT TO THE PLACE OF PURCHASE. (This notice does not
affect your statutory rights.)

Once the program has loaded, hit any key to move from the title screen to
the options menu.

The Construction Set loads in a similar manner, full instructions for its
use are included on a separate instruction leaflet.

The Game options menu shows:

			0 - PLAY GAME
			1 - KEYBOARD
			2 - KEMPSTON JOYSTICK
			3 - DEFINE KEYS

If you have a Kempston joystick connected, then pressing "2" and then your
"fire" button will allow you to use this - press the "fire" button again to
start a game.

If you have another type of joystick, or prefer to use the keyboard, 
pressing option "3" allows you to set up the program.

Initially the keys are set for a cursor joystick:

			5 - Left
			8 - Right
			7 - Up
			6 - Down

To set new keys simply press each key in turn, or move your Spectrum Plus 2 
or Interface 2 joystick in each direction in turn. When the correct keys 
are indicated press SPACE to return to the option menu.

You should not use the key "M" as this is used to switch the music on and
off during the game.

PLAYING THE GAME

The object of the game is to guide your marble to the bottom of each of
thirty screens as quickly as possible. Extra points can be obtained by 
passing over jumping "bonus" numbers on some screens.

You must avoid anything else on the screen which moves, and naturally avoid
falling into holes or off the paths.

It is possible to travel up screens - even up steep ramps, but it is not
possible to pass from say screen 2 back to screen 1.

Your marble will bounce off the edges of the screen, except when it gets to
the bottom, where it will advance you to the next screen.

The game is played within a time limit, displayed on each screen, which 
increases if you complete a screen quickly. When this time limit is reached,
the program will return to the options menu where your score and the current
high score are displayed.

When you have completed all the screens, or if you find them too hard, turn
the tape over and load the Construction Set on side B of the tape. This
allows you to design your own screens, which can be as difficult as you 
like.


Marble Madness (TM) Copyright (c) 1984, Atari Games.
All rights reserved, licensed to Melbourne House.

Marble Madness is a trade mark of Atari Games.

Program copyright (c) 1987, John F Cain.

Music by Consult Computer Systems.

Cover artwork by Bill Scolding.


Published by:
MELBOURNE HOUSE (PUBLISHERS) LTD
60 High street
Hampton Street
Hampton Wick
Kingston upon Thames
KT1 4DB


WARNING: Infringement of copyright is a criminal offence. Copying, lending,
hiring, public broadcasting, transmission or distribution are prohibited
without express written permission from Melbourne House (Publishers) Ltd.
All Melbourne House products are sold subject to our terms and conditions
of sale, copies of which are available on request.