MICROPROSE SOCCER
=================

LOADING MICROPROSE SOCCER

MICROPROSE SOCCER is loaded from the cassette in the normal way. Put the rewound cassette in your tape deck, 
with the chosen game label-side outwards. Turn on the C64 and press SHIFT and RUN/STOP. When prompted, press 
PLAY on the tape deck - and wait.

To load from disk-drive, turn on the drive, and for Association Football place disk side A MicroProse Soccer 
and type LOAD “*",8,1.

For American Rules Six-a-Side, place disk side B Six-a-Side in drive and type LOAD “*",8,1.

Note: C128 machines must be in 64 mode before loading commences.


GETTING STARTED

MICROPROSE SOCCER is operated using menus and a highlight bar to select the required option. Move the bar using 
a joystick in either port, and make your selection by pressing fire.

Both Association football, and American rules six-a-side football uses the same basic menus as described below. 
Differences between the games are outlined in the section on Rules of the Game.

Once the game has loaded, the Main Menu screen should appear as below, alternating between it, and the credit 
screen.

MICROPROSE INTERNATIONAL CHALLENGE 
WORLD CUP TOURNAMENT 
SOCCER LEAGUE 
TWO PLAYER FRIENDLY

DEMO GAME 
CONTROL PANEL 
NAME BANK

PLEASE SELECT YOUR FAVOURITE OPTION


QUICK START

Solo players should select MICROPROSE INTERNATIONAL CHALLENGE from the Main Menu; press fire again to bypass 
the challenge table. Select PLAY BALL, and press fire twice to begin the match. You will now play under the 
name of Player 1 against the first team in the challenge, Oman.

If there are two players, you should select TWO PLAYER FRIENDLY from the Main Menu, select PLAY BALL and press 
fire. Now, depending who presses the fire button to start the match, one person plays under the name of Player 1
and the other, Player 2.

This will allow you to start playing immediately, with the minimum of fuss. However; it is advised that you skim
through the section on controls as soon as possible, to familiarise yourself with the subtleties of the joystick 
commands.


OPERATING INSTRUCTIONS

NAME BANK

To make proper use of MICROPROSE SOCCER’s various options, it is essential that all the players' names are first 
entered into the program. To do this, highlight NAME BANK and press fire. The Name Bank then appears, with 
another menu below ...

INSERT NAME 
DELETE NAME
EXIT

Player 1 and Player 2 names are used throughout the various leagues unless they are deleted. If you wish to do 
this, go to DELETE, press fire, then highlight the names you wish removed. Another tap on the fire button 
deletes the name.

Names may be removed in this way at any time during play. For instance, if a player has to finish play early 
just DELETE NAME, and he’s removed from all further competitions.

Now, select INSERT NAME, and press fire. Type in the first players chosen name (up to 8 characters) and press 
RETURN. You must now select that players 1st and 2nd team colours. Using the joystick, pull down to cycle 
through the colours available, and press fire when the desired one appears. Repeat this process for teams 2nd 
team strip.

NOTE: The program automatically stops you from selecting colours which are too close to one another If your 
teams 1st strip clashes with that of the opposing team there will be some difficulty in separating the two 
on-screen; the 2nd strip is thus used to provide a sufficiently contrasing colour to the 1st.

The Name Bank also acts as a progress screen, showing at a glance how players are faring in the different 
competitions.

When all of the players’ names and strips have been entered, EXIT back at the Main Menu.


CONTROL PANEL

Those who wish to obtain the maximum benefit from the game should now continue on to CONTROL PANEL, which lets 
you customise the many functions of MICROPROSE SOCCER at your own discretion. Upon pressing the fire button, 
the secondary menu appears:

SELECTION MODE - MAN/AUTO 
WEATHER - ON/OFF (OUTDOOR GAME ONLY)
BANANA POWER - HI/MED/LO 
MATCH LENGTH - 2/4/6/8/10/12 MINS 
REPLAYS-ON/OFF 
COLOUR MODE - COL/B-W 
IN GAME MUSIC-ON/OFF
SAVE-TAPE/DISK 
LOAD-TAPE/DISK
EXIT

Each option is altered by highlighting, and then pressing fire to cycle through the available choices.

Most of these options are self-explanatory. However here is a brief explanation of their individual functions:

SELECTION MODE

During a game, the player under your direct control can be selected automatically in which case he’s always the 
player nearest the ball; or manually switching between the current player and the one nearest the ball by 
pressing the fire button. The latter case allows you to kick the ball on without automatically giving possession 
to members of your team who may be nearby.

WEATHER (OUTDOOR GAME ONLY)

Just like in real life, it rains on MICROPROSE SOCCER matches - complete with thunder and lightning. This has 
serious effects upon the movement of the ball and players, so if you don’t fancy the challenge of playing on 
a wet pitch in torrential rain, set it to OFF.

BANANA POWER

Adjusts the strength of the Banana Shot (described in detail later on) between High, MEDium and LOw. Realistic 
effects are obtained by leaving the setting on MED.

MATCH LENGTH

Matches can be either 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 or 12 minutes in length. It's best to choose 2 or 4 minutes for playing 
in a large league, unless you intend saving your position.

REPLAYS

MICROPROSE SOCCER gives a perfect slow-motion replay of every goal scored. Unless you turn it OFF.

COLOUR CODE

If you’re playing MICROPROSE SOCCER on a black and white TV set this option accordingly, and team strips always 
appear as black versus white for clarity.

IN GAME MUSIC

In addition to the sound effects, you may also hear the soundtrack at the press of the button. Music may be 
fine tuned to your individual SID CHIP by use of +/— keys.

SAVE & LOAD

Whenever you’re in the middle of a league, and want to save your position put a retrieval device (the program 
already knows which one you have linked up), select the SAVE option and press the fire button. Now, enter a file 
name (up to 9 characters) and press return.

Similarly, to restart your game, select LOAD, type in the required filename, and you’re all set to kick off 
again.

NOTE: This option only saves current league standings, not the games in progress; once you quit a match, it’s 
gone for good.

When you’ve finished with the Control Panel, EXIT back to the main Menu.

ADDITIONAL KEYS

F1 - Swop joysticks. This key will enable you to exchange teams if one player accidentally controls the wrong 
team at the beginning or half time of the match.

RUN STOP - Pause game.

RUN STOP and Q - Quit game.


DEMO GAME

In the event that you want a quick look at the game, but don’t want to actually compete, MICROPROSE SOCCER will, 
play through a demonstration game between two randomly chosen teams. Highlight the option, press fire twice, 
and sit back and watch ...

When you’ve seen enough, pressing the fire button, moving the joystick or pressing RUN/STOP and Q causes 
the Main Menu to reappear.


TWO PLAYER FRIENDLY

Select the option and press fire. Another screen appears showing the pending match and who the participants are, 
with a sub-menu beneath:

RE-SELECT TEAMS 
PLAY BALL 
EXIT

Should there be two names in the Name Bank, both players are automatically selected to play. However; if the 
Name Bank selects two players who do not wish to compete, highlight RE-SELECT TEAMS and press fire. The correct 
names can now be selected in the normal way.

Once the teams have been sorted out, select PLAY BALL. The match summary screen is displayed, showing the 
players, in their strip colours, and direction of play. It also prompts one person to press fire in order to 
start the game. If, in your haste to begin, the wrong person presses fire, a tap on the F1 key swaps control 
of the joysticks.

The game can be halted at any time by pressing RUN/STOP and Q. This allows you to RE-SELECT TEAMS if necessary, 
or EXIT back to the Main Menu. Once the game is quit, however; it cannot be restarted; selecting PLAY BALL 
starts a new game from scratch.

At the end of the game, the final score is displayed; pressing fire then takes you back to the Match Pending 
screen.


SOCCER/INDOOR LEAGUE

On selecting this option, the SOCCER LEAGUE table appears showing all the players in the Name Bank, their win 
differences and current position in the league, alternating between it, and the Pending Match screen with the 
sub-menu beneath:

RE-SELECT TEAMS 
PLAY BALL 
EXIT

The SOCCER LEAGUE allows up to 16 players included in the Name Bank to compete against one another in 
competition. The players taking part in each match are selected using the RE-SELECT TEAMS options, and play is 
started in the same way as for the TWO PLAYER FRIENDLY.

It is up to those taking part to make a note of who has played who. However the computer does keep track of the 
win differences of each player Starting with 0, a win earns 1 point; a draw results in no change; and a loss, 
minus 1 (although win differences never fall below 0). Thus the player with the highest win difference at the 
end of the contest is deemed to be the winner.

The league may be re-entered at any time during play, and the current standings saved to tape or disk. Thus 
a large league may be continued over several days, if need be.


WORLD CUP/ALL STAR TOURNAMENT

Entering the WORLD CUP TOURNAMENT brings up a list of names, and a secondary menu, thus:

START NEW TOURNAMENT 
RE-SELECT TEAM 
CONTINUE OLD TOURNAMENT 
EXIT

The names displayed are those currently residing in the Name Bank, and are all Excluded from play until selected. 
Go to RE-SELECT TEAM and highlight the first participant. On pressing fire, the highlight stops glowing and 
allows you to choose that players preferred nationality; move the joystick up or down to cycle through the 29 
available and press fire to select one. Repeat this process for all those taking part.

Once the teams have all been selected, START NEW TOURNAMENT. A World Cup table is then drawn up by the computer; 
with 24 countries represented, including those previously selected to play.

Each team is graded according to their apparent talent. This affects their position in the table, since there 
are four seed levels, and also alters the quality of the computer controlled opposition. For instance, if. 
you're drawn in a group with Oman, Northern Ireland and Mexico, you’re onto a winner straight away. Accordingly, 
if you choose to play as Brazil, you stand a better chance of winning than if you represent Cameroon.

NOTE: The tournament table acts just like the real thing - no teams from the same Oceanic group are drawn 
against each other in the first round.

1st SEED	2nd SEED	3rd SEED	4th SEED

1 Brazil	7  France	14 Sweden	22 Algeria
2 Italy		8  Uruguay	15 Hungary	23 USA
3 Argentina	9  Spain	16 Scotland	24 Australia
4 W Germany	10 England	17 Austria	25 Canada
5 Holland	11 Poland	18 Ireland	26 Cameroon
6 USSR		12 Denmark	19 Wales	27 Japan
		13 Mexico 	20 Chile	28 N Zealand
				21 N Ireland 	29 Oman

The table also acts as an itinery for the tournament, telling you which matches are to be played that day, and 
so on.

Whenever two non-human controlled teams are drawn together; the final scores are simply displayed. These are 
carefully calculated scores weighted toward the team of greater prowess. Continually pressing fire cycles 
through those matches that do not require a human participant.

Draws that DO depend upon a human player (either versus the computer or another player) are displayed 
accordingly on the pending match screen. Play is then started in the normal way by selecting the PLAY BALL 
option, and pressing fire to start the match.

If, during the tournament, players wish to change teams for political reasons (i.e. they’ve been knocked out), 
or wish to drop out of the tournament (before they get knocked out), or wish to enter the tournament after it 
has started (they suddenly fancy their chances), then highlight RE-SELECT TEAM rather than PLAY BALL. Players 
can then choose a nationality that is still in the championships and not already selected by another player; or 
be Excluded altogether.

NOTE: Players can only join the Championships as a late entry if their name is already in the Name Bank.

The first round of the World Cup is completed when each team has played three games each. Progress is measured 
in points, each team receiving 2 for a win, 1 for a draw and 0 for a lose. Goal difference is also calculated, 
enabling tied positions to be settled without replays.

The top two teams from each group then go through to the second round, which takes the shape of a sudden death 
competition. Draws are made at random, and the six winning teams plus the two best runners-up progress to the 
quarter finals. The sudden death competition continues through the semi finals and into the final; drawn matches 
at full time go into unlimited overtime, with the first team to score being the winner.


MICROPROSE INTERNATIONAL CHALLENGE

The MICROPROSE INTERNATIONAL CHALLENGE is designed for the solo player; or for people who wish to compete 
against the computer rather than each other.

Initially, a high score table appears displaying the level reached and score achieved, for each player entered 
into the Name Bank. This constantly alternates between it, and the Pending Match screen containing a further 
sub-menu:

RE-SELECT TEAM 
PLAY BALL 
EXIT

If the Pending Match is okay, select PLAY BALL and continue as usual. However RE-SELECT TEAM allows challengers 
to be chosen at will from those players already in the Name Bank.

The MICROPROSE INTERNATIONAL CHALLENGE is a structured league which allows competition against 16 computer 
controlled teams of increasingly high standard, taken from World Cup line-up. Every time a team is defeated, 
your position in the high score table increases; every time you lose, it goes down. However; you cannot go below 
the bottom of the league, and if a draw occurs, the match is replayed until a result is obtained.

The ultimate aim is to progress through all 16 levels, with Brazil being the team to beat Your current standings 
may be saved to tape or disk, and the challenge re-entered at the last level played.


CONTROLS

MICROPROSE SOCCER players have a wide range of movements, accessed by joystick commands with and without the 
fire button being pressed. With the joystick button un-pressed, the eight joystick positions direct the player 
around the field accordingly.

The control method has three different modes of operation, depending upon whether:

a) The ball is in free play
b) Your player is in possession of the ball
c) The opposition have the ball

a) Guide your player around the pitch in an attempt to capture the ball, using the normal joystick directions. 
The player automatically gains possession of the ball on contact, and runs with it until possession is lost. If 
the fire button is depressed when the player makes contact with the ball, it is volleyed a short distance in 
the direction faced by the player.

b) Here, your player automatically runs and dribbles with the ball, kicking it only when fire is pressed.

There are a variety of different kicks available to the player; depending upon the position of the joystick and 
the length of time the fire button is depressed. A short kick is achieved by jabbing the fire button, while 
a full-strength kick is released automatically by holding the fire button down.

Whenever fire is pressed, the joystick no longer controls the direction of the player but allows the choice of 
shot to be selected instead. To make a shot, press the fire button and immediately move the joystick to the 
desired position:

Joystick forward - volleys the ball in straight line.
Joystick left/right diagonal - banana shot. Causes the ball to curl left or right, accordingly. 
Joystick central - player performs a chip shot.
Joystick back - player performs a brilliant Pele-style backwards overhead kick.

NOTE: The direction of shot is relative to the direction in which the player was moving immediately before 
pressing the fire button. For example, with your player moving in a South-West direction, a banana shot curling 
from left to right is initiated by pressing the fire button and pulling the joystick straight down.

c) If the opposition manage to get hold of the ball, you’ll have to try and tackle the player in possession. 
Whenever your player is close enough, pressing fire causes him to attempt a sliding tackle. This only occurs 
when your player is moving, however.

If your player makes contact with the ball, it is kicked into a free-play situation and can be collected; if 
the challenge is unsuccessful!, the opposing player merely retains possession.

NOTE: Attempting sliding tackles in the wet can have unpredictable results!

Whenever an opposing player approaches the goal, a buzzer sounds signalling that you now have control over the 
goalkeeper. In this case, different rules apply: pressing the fire button causes the goalie to dive for the ball 
as below:

Joystick right - goalie dives to the right 
Joystick left - goalie dives to the left 
Joystick centred - goalie jumps up in the air

The goalie also has a higher priority in ball collection; any contact with the ball gives him possession over 
other players.

CORNERS

Pressing the button releases the ball in a diagonal direction only The strength of the kick is determined in 
the normal way.

THROW-INS

Throw-ins may be directed in one of three directions: diagonally left and right plus forward. The strength of 
the throw is adjusted as for a kick.

GOAL KICKS

Whenever the goalkeeper gains possession of the ball, play is restarted by a goalkick from the correct section 
of the goal area. The kick is directed forwards only and the strength is adjusted as normal.

KICK-OFF

When play is first started, or restarted after half time or a goal, a press of the fire button causes one player 
to tap the ball to the other who then has full control over the ball.


RULES OF THE GAME

For those of you who are unfamiliar with the rules of either version of football included, here is a basic 
overview of the laws governing play in MICROPROSE SOCCER.


ASSOCIATION FOOTBALL

The following rules are those officially approved by the Referees Committee of FIFA (the Federation 
Internationale de Football Association).

COMPONENTS

The playing area is normally set out on a grassy pitch, described by white markings as defined in diagram 1.

Goals are situated at either end and are of a standard size as defined in diagram 2.

The ball is also a standard size, being between 27 and 28 inches in circumference, and weighing in at 
between 14 and 16 ounces.

TEAMS

The two teams are each made up of ten players, a goalkeeper and two substitutes. The goalie is allowed to handle 
the ball when it falls inside the goal area as defined in diagram 1.

KICK-OFF

Play begins by kicking-off from the middle of the centre circle, with both teams’ players in their own half. 
The kicking team is decided by the toss of a coin, and the opposing team kicks off at the start of the second 
half.

The ball must first travel at least its own circumference (27 inches) into the oppositions half, and the kicker 
may not touch the ball again until another player has done so.

The kick-off is also used to resume play after a goal and is carried out by the opposing team.

SCORING

A goal may be scored by any member of either team; one which is affected by a member of the defending team is 
termed an 'own goal’ and the offending player called a variety of names.

OUT-OF-BOUNDS

The ball is termed ‘in-play’ whenever it is positioned within the boundaries of the pitch markings. A ball is 
only deemed ‘out of play’ once the whole of the ball has crossed one of the containment lines - either the 
touch line, or the goal line.

THROW-INS

Whenever the whole of the ball crosses either touch-line, a throw-in is awarded against the team whose player 
last touched the ball. An opposing team member may then throw the ball back into play from behind the touchline, 
at the point where it crossed the line.

CORNERS

If the defending team, kicks the ball across the goal-line outside the goalmouth, a corner is awarded to the 
attacking team. The ball is placed in the nearest quarter circle and a selected attacking player kicks the ball
back into play Attackers may be as near to the ball as they like, but defending players must be at least 
10 yards away from the ball. Should the ball enter the goal-mouth before touching another player the goal is 
disallowed.

GOAL KICKS

If the ball is kicked across the goal-line (excluding the goal mouth) by an attacking player; the ball is then 
returned to the defending goalie who kicks it back into play (i.e. clear of the penalty area).

The kick must be taken from the goal area, in the half nearest to the point where the ball crossed the goal-line. 
Attacking players must all be outside the penalty area when the kick is taken.


AMERICAN RULES SIX-A-SIDE INDOOR FOOTBALL

The basic rules of indoor soccer are similar to those of Association Football, but there are several differences 
due to the reduced size of the pitch and the enclosed playing area. The following regulations are provided by 
the MISL (Major Indoor Soccer League) of America.

COMPONENTS

The indoor pitch is covered by an artificial playing surface, or carpet, and the different regions are marked 
out with red and white lines:

The whole arena is set indoors, and the playing area is surrounded by a plexiglass wall eight feet high.

Goals are situated at either end and are of a standard size:

The ball is also a standard size, measuring between 27 and 28 inches in circumference, and between 16 and 14 
ounces in weight.

TEAMS

There are two teams, each of six players including the goalkeeper. Both teams are obliged to have 14 players 
kitted out, ready for substitutions, and even with multiple time penalties, there should be no fewer than four 
players on the pitch per team.

KICK-OFF

Play is started by the visiting team, who place-kick the ball from the centre spot at least half the balls 
circumference (14 inches) into the home teams area. Opposing players must be at least 10 feet from the ball 
in their own half, and the kicker may not touch the ball again until it has touched another player.

Play is also restarted in a similar fashion at the start of each quarter and after goals and penalty kicks, 
where the opposing team kicks off.

OUT-OF-BOUNDS

In indoor football, the ball is constantly in play, since there are no boundary lines to be crossed. The ball 
is only deemed out of play when it travels high enough to cross the perimeter wall, or make contact with part 
of the building in which the pitch is housed. In both cases, play is continued by awarding the opposing team 
with a free kick (see on), to be taken from the centre of the nearest red line.

THREE LINE VIOLATION

If the ball is kicked into the air towards the oppositions goal, and it crosses the three centre lines (two red 
and one white) without touching the ground or another player a free kick is awarded to the opposing team. The 
ball kicked back into play from the centre of the last red line that it crossed.

KICK-INS

Whenever the whole ball crosses the perimeter wall, play is restarted by the taking of a kick-in by an opposing 
player The ball is placed on the touchline directly below the point at which the ball crossed the wall, and the 
ball is kicked back into play.

Such kick-ins are direct and goals may be scored by the kicker.

GOAL KICKS

If the attacking team kicks the ball over the end perimeter wall, between the flagposts and over the crossbar; 
play is restarted by a goal kick. This is a free kick taken from within the goal area in the half nearest to 
the point where the ball left the pitch. The kick may be taken by any player (not just the goalie), and it must 
travel completely beyond the penalty area before it touches another player.

CORNERS

If the defending team kick the ball over their end perimeter wall, a corner is awarded to the attacking team. 
The ball is placed on the nearest corner mark and kicked back into play. Again, such kicks are direct and goals 
may be scored by the kicker.


HISTORY OF THE WORLD CUP

Football in one form or another has been played by various ancient races, such as the Aztecs and the Vikings. 
The ball was anything vaguely spherical - such as inflated animal organs or disembodied heads.

The sport known today first started to take shape several centuries ago, but it was not until the game was 
played at English public schools that the first sets of rules were laid down.

People who played the game at school naturally wanted to continue after they left, but it was necessary to work 
out a set of rules by which everyone could abide. Since boys from all backgrounds met at University they became 
a natural venue for meetings to discuss the rules. Cambridge played a particularly major role in this.

There were basically two different factions: those who wished to handle the ball, and those who didn’t. The 
former group decided to follow the rules in force at Rugby school, while the latter were to go on to finalise 
the game of football. A governing association was formed in 1863 and so the game became Association Football, 
or ‘Soccer’ for short.

The game rapidly spread in popularity to Europe, South America, Canada, USA and Australia, but the first truly 
international match wasn’t held until 1872, when Scotland beat England in Glasgow. And it was to be another 50 
years before the idea of a World Cup competition would be conceived.

The concept of the World Cup was actually the brainchild of two Frenchmen: Jules Rimet and Henri Delaunay Rimet 
was later to become President of FIFA (the Federation Internationale de Football Associations) from 1920 to 1954, 
and Delaunay its secretary from 1919 until his death in 1956.

It was at the very first meeting of FIFA in 1904 that the idea for a world football championship was proposed. 
It was felt that the international football competition held within the Olympics was no longer able to contend 
with the increasingly popular sport, and the professional status of the game meant that many countries weren’t 
represented by their best players. The scheme was then debated on and off for 26 years, until 1928 when it was 
finally accepted.

There were five nations willing to host the first games: Italy, Holland, Spain, Sweden and Uruguay Uruguay, 
however promised to pay all travelling and hotel expenses for the visiting teams, and would build a new stadium 
specially for the event. Faced with such a strong argument the four European entrants could only agree - and 
then sulk by not sending a team, using the three week boat journey as an excuse.

In fact, with only two months to go before the kick-off, Uruguay found itself hosting a championship in which 
not one European team was entered. The Latin American federations threated to pull out of FIFA, and so 
eventually, France, Belgium, Yugoslavia and Romania attended, the latter team being picked by King Carol 
himself.

In July of 1930, Uruguay faced Argentina in the final, set in Centenary Stadium in Montevideo. Uruguay won, 4-2, 
and the 50,000 franc French-designed golden trophy was lofted high by the Uruguayan captain. Later the Uruguayan 
consulate was stoned by an angry Argentinian mob, before being dispersed by gunfire.

At the Stockholm congress of 1932, it was decided that the rapidly increasing competition could no longer be 
held in a single city. The 1934 championships were therefore held at locations throughout Italy.

The first round was also altered to a knockout competition between the 16 qualifiers previously whittled down 
from the 32 entrants. Because of this rather drastic style of competition, Argentina and Brazil both endured 
a 16,000 mile round trip - for one match!

Uruguay was still sulking after being snubbed in the 1930 championships and decided to stay away so the 
defending nation weren’t even represented. Nonetheless, the games continued, and once again the host nation won 
- much to the delight of Mussolini and the Fascist party - making a profit of one'million Lira in the process.

By 1938, Europe was in the throes of pre-war unrest; the Auschluss movement had swallowed Austria, whose best 
players had been snatched by the German team.

Uruguay, STILL sulking after the 1930 debacle, and Argentina, whose offer to host the games was passed over in 
favour of France, stayed away. The latter decision caused a riot outside the Federations office in Buenos Aries 
which had to be quelled by police.

However new additions to the role call included Cuba, Poland and the Dutch East Indies!

After a fierce struggle, Italy won for a second time - and they held onto the Cup for 12 years, while Hitler 
and his forces put paid to any further international events.

The Brazilian World Cup of 1950, was now officially known as the Jules Rimet Trophy, after its inspiration (who 
had hidden the trophy under his bed throughout the war). A badly organised affair, the final took place in the 
as yet unfinished Maracana stadium - the exterior of which still resembled a building site.

The four British associations returned to FIFA in 1946, after leaving the organisation in the 30s due to 
disagreements over payments for players. The World Cup committee generously designated the British Championships 
as a qualifying zone - guaranteeing a place for the only two entrants! Scotland rewarded their courtesy by 
stating that unless they won the title they would not be competing. They lost, and stayed away from the 
competition.

Scotland weren’t the only absentees, though: Argentina were sulking; Czechoslovakia were still suffering from 
the effects of the war; Austria chickened out, saying their team was too young; Germany was excluded, for 
obvious reasons, and Hungary was still behind the Iron Curtain. Turkey, too, pulled out at the last minute, 
allowing France to compete, even though they had been knocked out in the qualifying round.

However France then dropped out again, after the complications of the Brazilian itinery obliged them to play 
one match in Porto Alegra, and the next 2,000 miles away in Recife. In fact, many teams ended up trouping all 
over the country to venues hundreds, and sometimes thousands of miles apart - except for Brazil, of course, who 
by some stroke of good fortune were required to play all of their matches but one in Rio de Janeiro!

In the end, though, this didn’t help them: Uruguay took the trophy home for a second time.

The Swiss event of 1954 passed quietly, save for an illogical eliminating scheme and bad organisation. So too 
did 1958 in Sweden - apart from the appearance of a young Brazilian called Pele. In fact, the latter years of 
the World Cup have all had their share of controversy, but largely - and more fittingly - on the field than off 
it.

The championship has continued to grow, becoming more and more organised with each successive competition. It 
is now the premiere footballing event, and challenges even the Olympics in popularity and world-wide interest.


WORLD CUP VENUES

1930	Uruguay - Montevideo		Uruguay  4 - 2	Argentina
1934	Italy - Rome			  Italy  2 - 1	Czechoslovakia
1938	France - Paris			  Italy	 4 - 2	Hungary
1942	War Stopped Play			
1946	War Stopped Play			
1950	Brazil - Rio de Janeiro		Uruguay	 2 - 1	Brazil
1954	Switzerland - Berne		Germany	 3 - 2	Hungary
1958	Sweden - Stockholm		 Brazil	 5 - 2	Sweden
1962	Chile - Santiago		 Brazil	 3 - 1	Czechoslovakia
1966	England - Wembley		England	 4 - 2	W Germany
1970	Mexico - Mexico City		 Brazil	 4 - 1	Italy
1974	West Germany - Munich	      W Germany  2 - 1	Holland
1978	Argentina - Buenos Aries      Argentina	 3 - 1	Holland
1982	Spain - Madrid		          Italy	 3 - 1	W Germany
1986	Mexico - Mexico City	      Argentina	 3 - 2	W Germany



CREDITS

SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT
SENSIBLE SOFTWARE

PLAYTESTING
DIARMID CLARKE, SAM REEVES, LAING BURGESS

DOCUMENTATION
STEVE JARRETT

MANUAL GRAPHICS
JULIE BURNESS, FIONA REMNANT

