MINDSHADOW
----------

Insert the "MINDSHADOW" cassette in your cassette recorder.
Make sure the cassette is fully rewound.
To load the tutorial type LOAD"" followed by 'ENTER'
The tutorial section will now load automatically.

If you do not want the tutorial to load, and want to play the main game then
type the following: LOAD "MIND1" followed by 'ENTER'.

If you want to play the second part of Mindshadow, type the following: LOAD
"MIND2" followed by 'ENTER'. Note that you will only be allowed to play "MIND2"
if you have previously completed "MIND1" and saved the position onto cassette.
You cannot complete "MIND2" without haveing this saved game ready.

NOTE: On the recerse of the tape, "MIND2" is the first file followed by "MIND1".
This is done so that if you have completed the first part of the game it will be
easier for you to load the second part.

GETTING STARTED
---------------
If you load the TUTORIAL section, you will be taught the basics of how to play a
graphic adventure.
Now and then, in the thick of Mindshadow, you may feel baffled. To assist you in
these circumstances, you may type HELP. The computer will respond to your need
for help. But it may or may not offer advice.
Whenever you wish to view any previous text, you can press "ENTER". The graphics
will disappear and be replaced by text, if you press "ENTER" again the graphics
will reappear.

MINDSHADOW FEATURES
-------------------
SAVE GAME: Please follow the instructions that appear on the game screen. You
will need a blank tape ready to save your game onto. (It is not possible to save
onto the Mindshadow cassette.) The screen will instruct you to insert the game
save cassette. Then it will ask you to press any key to continue. When you press
"any" key, the program will start saving your game. After the game has been
saved, the screen will prompt you to replace the Mindshadow cassette. Remember
to note down what is saved on a tape, otherwise you will lose track of your
saved games.

LOAD GAME: Please follow any instructions that appear on the game screen. You
will need you game save tape. The screen will instruct you to insert the same
save cassette. Then it will ask you to press any key to continue. When you press
"any" key, the program will start to load your game. After the game has been
loaded, the screen will prompt you to replace the Mindshadow cassette.

NOTE: There are two parts to the Mindshadow game. Game positions saved while
playing "MIND1" will not be accepted by "MIND2", and vice versa. The screen will
give an error messag. The only exception to this is when you have completed
"MIND1", as described earlier. A game save must be made at this point, in order
to let you start playing "MIND2".

QUICKSAVE: This is another feature of Mindshadow, it enables you to save a game,
without using a tape. So if you are about to make a move you are not sure about,
you should use QUICKSAVE first. Each time you use QUICKSAVE the position last
stored is lost. Lastly remember that if you have decided to stop playing for
now, you should save the game onto cassette, as when you turn off your computer
ALL information is lost!

QUICKLOAD: If you have QUICKSAVED a game the QUICKLOAD will restore the game, as
you left off when you QUICKSAVED.

TEXT COMMANDS
-------------
THINK COMMAND: when a clue of any kind presents itself or if you want to know
more about the nature of a character or object type "THINK_____" filling in the
name of what you'd like to think about. If you haven't "thought" about enough
clues during the game, you may get to the end of your adventure and not know
your true identity.

KEY COMMANDS: A partial but important listing. Use these commands as a quick
reference. Several can be abbreviated as noted.

(N)orth      (U)p          Push       Insert
(S)outh      (D)own        Take       Read
(E)ast       (L)eft        Open       Close
(W)est       (R)ight       Get        Turn
(F)orward    (I)nventory   Talk       Go
(B)ackward   Examine       Drop
