MONTY ON THE RUN:

Super fit and desperate for freedom, Monty maks his daring escape from
Scudmore Prison. Hounded by the bastions of law and order, our frightened
hero finds refuge with the criminal underworld who offer him his chance of
freedom. Moving from "safe house" to hideout to underground lair, Monty must
select the correct five elements of his freedom kit from the many he's
offered and not miss out on the hidden gold coins that will make him a mole
of leisure. Once free, can he make the ferry in time?

INSTRUCTIONS TO PLAY
GAMEPLAN
Monty, having escaped from prison and how superfit so that he can somersault,
must make his way to freedom through many hideous and secret locations. To
successfully complete his journey he has been offered a freedom kit with 21
items in it, only the correct five will get him through. In addition, there
are gold coins to collect on the way, plus some other objects that will help
or hinder (you'll only find out if you try them!)

THE FREEDOM KIT
 1. Compass              2. Jet Pack             3. Disguise
 4. Rope                 5. Generator            6. Laser Gun
 7. Watch                8. Ladder               9. Hand Grenade
10. Gun                 11. Floppy Disk         12. Passport
13. Gas Mask            14. Telescopic          15. Tank
16. Bottle of Rum       17. Axe                 18. Kit Bag
19. Map                 20. Hammer              21. Torch

GENERAL TIPS FOR OBJECT SELECTION
Don't worry too much about selecting the freedom kit. There will come
a point in the game where you will go no further but it looks as if you
should. At that point take careful note of where you are, restart the game
and select the item from the freedom kit that will help you on your way!

SELECTING INITIAL OPTIONS
Use Up and Down to position the stars at the side of the desired option, then
press Jump/Fire to select it.

FREEDOM KIT SELECTION
Use the Left and Right to move arrow and press Jump/Fire to select an object.
The object numbers will correspond with the freedom kit list on the inlay
card.

HOW TO MOVE
KEYBOARD
Q Left                  W Right
Y-P Up                  ENTER-H Down
B-SPACE Jump/Fire

Joystick:
compatible with Kempston and Interface II.
These will be selected automatically if present.

Gremlin Graphics Software Limited
Alpha House, 10 Carver Street, Sheffield S1 4FS.
(C) All rights reserved.

MONTY ON THE RUN - Solution

This is how to complete MONTY ON THE RUN. Select the following items first:

  No 2   - Jetpack
  No 4   - Rope
  No 12  - Passport
  No 13  - gas
  No 16  - bottle of rum.

Collect the coins you can but leave the ones which are dangerous. Always collect
the buns in The House. When you come round the first screen of the Sewerage
Works, walk through the teleport - this can be tricky - then collect the bun
that room. The wall will disappear as you can walk through. Collect everything
you see in this new area. When you come into the room with Help printed on it,
go into the teleport and you will find yourself in another room - collect the
switch and money. Make your way back to the Help screen and you'll see that the
floor has been filled in - but only if you've collected everything. Walk through
the teleporter and you'll find yourself in a room with a rocket pack. Move to
the right and you will eventually end up at the Tree Stump. Go to the top and
collect the object then descend using the jetpack and move left to "drive Sir
Clive's C5". You need the object from the Tree Stump to complete the game.
Move through the rooms until you reach the end and drop into Das Boat. Collect
all the objects, go to the bottom left-hand side of the boat and collect the
key. Now move to the top left-hand side of the boat and you will see a flashing
square. Jump onto this to finish the game.
