THE SPECTRUM GAMES DATABASE

MOVIE 

PUBLISHER
Imagine

AUTHOR

YEAR
1986

CATEGORIES
Arcade adventure

CONTROLS
Keyboard, Kempston, Cursor

 KEYS :  Up         -  Q to P
         Down       -  A to Enter
         Left       -  X, V, N
         Right      -  Z, C, B, M, Space
         Fire       -  1 to 0

INSTRUCTIONS
You're a private detective who's been hired to recover an audio
tape from a gangster's HQ. First however, you have to find a
girl, who will lead you to the Mob's base. This isn't as simple
as it sounds, though, since she has an identical twin sister who
is a member of the Mob. You'll have to find the right girl and
protect her from harm on the way to the HQ...
 
The game is viewed in an Ultimate-style isometric 3D perspective
(although rather oddly, all the characters appear to be cardboard
cutouts...). Along the bottom of the screen is a row of ten
icons. From left to right, they are:

1) Cursor control - allows you to point the blue inventory arrow
                    (above this icon) at an object you're holding
                    before you make use of it.
2) Pick up        - allows you to pick up an object that's at
                    your feet.
3) Put down       - allows you to drop an object, selected with
                    the blue inventory arrow.
4) Gun            - provided you're carrying a gun, this allows
                    you to fire. The little white dots above the
                    box indicate the number of bullets.
5) Movement       - swiches you into movement mode.
6) Speech         - inflates a speech bubble next to your
                    character.  Type your words and press Enter
                    to say them.
7) Punch          - self-explanatory, really...
8) Throw          - allows you to throw an object, selected with
                    the blue inventory arrow.
9) Halt           - pauses the game.
10) Abort         - quits the current game.

Pressing the fire button allows you to move the icon selection
cursor in order to select the relevant icons. At the start of the
game, movement mode is selected as the default, allowing you to
move around the room in four directions. Some of the objects
(such as chairs and tables) can be moved around, while the
smaller ones can be picked up, dropped or thrown. The gun, if you
find it, can be fired up to five times before its ammo runs out,
in which case you'll have to find a new gun.

The playing area is a rather seedy area of the city in which
several mobsters are lurking. Some will try to punch you (and you
can punch back) but others carry guns and will try to shoot you.
There are other, friendlier characters too. You can talk to them
using the Speech icon; although they won't accept direct orders,
they can be friendly and give you some useful help. Some doors
are guarded, and you'll need to speak the appropriate password
to enter them - using your detective skills you should be able
to get the passwords.

As you collect useful items, they'll appear in the space above
the icons. A small blue arrow points at your latest acquisition
and, if you want to make use of an object, use the Cursor Control
icon to highlight the object. Sometimes you'll need to throw
items; look out for the bomb!


SCORES RECEIVED
"A neat development on the 3D theme with a very different 
scenario". 93% (CRASH #28, March 1986)

GENERAL FACTS

NOTES

