NIGHT HUNTER
============

Come with us, mere mortal!
Release the vampire in you.

Become the night wandering, blood sucking creature who lives most of his life in the darkness 
of old castles, and fears holy water and the sight of crucifixes.

When the night is clear and the moon is full, you are nothing less than the famous Count 
Dracula himself, searching for life saving medallions in a village full of menacing enemies.

Priests, witches, punks, and the police are hot on your trail because the professor Van Helsing 
has warned everyone of your intentions to create chaos on Earth  and become its master. 
Fortunately you possess the ability to eerily transform from Dracula  into a bat or a werewolf 
and back again, according to which situation demands it. 

Beware, Van Helsing is out to get you and plans to sabotage your every move. Your wicked plans 
must be completed before dawn, for your life is at stake!

Come, the night awaits...

- Possibility to save 10 different parts of the game.
- Advance to higher levels by collecting 8 objects and finding the magic door.
- Shudder to HAIR-RAISING sound effects.
- Adventure into 30 spine chilling levels and 100 horrifying scenes.
- Transform from Dracula to bat to werewolf and back again.
- Excellent playability and beautiful graphics.



COMMAND CARD FOR THE SPECTRUM

This card tells you how to use NIGHT HUNTER on your SPECTRUM.

I) TO PLAY NIGHT HUNTER, YOU NEED:

- SPECTRUM + 3 (disk) or SPECTRUM + 2 (cassette) 128 Kb
- Color monitor
- 1 joystick

II) LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

1) SWITCH OFF YOUR COMPUTER

2) Insert the disk in the disk drive and switch on your computer.

3) Press RETURN; the game will load automatically. After a few seconds, you will see a message 
   asking you to return to the disk. Complete this operation and validate it by pressing the 
   space bar.



COMMAND CARD FOR THE AMSTRAD

This card tells you how to use NIGHT HUNTER on your AMSTRAD.

I) TO PLAY NIGHT HUNTER, YOU NEED:

- AMSTRAD 6128 (It is not possible to have a version 64 Kb - 664 and 464)
- Color monitor
- 1 joystick

II) LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

1) SWITCH OFF YOUR COMPUTER

2) Insert the disk into the disk drive and switch on your computer.

3) Type the command RUN "NIGHT to load the game.

4) The game will charge automatically. After a few seconds, you will see a message asking you 
   to return to the disk. Complete this operation and validate it by pressing the space bar.



COMMAND CARD FOR THE IBM

This card tells you how to use NIGHT HUNTER on your PC.

I) TO PLAY NIGHT HUNTER, YOU NEED:
 
- IBM PC, XT, AT compatibles in mode CGA, EGA, VGA, pr a Tandy in mode Tandy 16 colors.
- joystick adapter, optional

II) LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

1) SWITCH OFF YOUR COMPUTER

2) Insert your DOS disk in disk drive A and switch on your computer.

3) If your computer has a hard disk with auto boot, you do not have to put the DOS disk in the 
   disk drive A. After the booting process, you can access disk drive A.

4) Insert disk 1 of NIGHT HUNTER in disk drive A. To play the game, you must know in which 
   graphic mode you are going to play (CGA, EGA, VGA, or TANDY).

5) To gain access to the game, you must make the following command: A>NIGHT then press RETURN.

6) Choose the graphic mode (CGA, EGA/VGA, TDY). You can select the graphic mode by using the 
   arrow keys on the numerical part of the keyboard. The game will ask that you change disks. 
   Insert the disk demanded and press RETURN.

7) A message will ask you if you are using a joystick. If this is the case, press RETURN. 
   Another message will ask you to move the joystick up, down, left, right, and center, then 
   the game will continue loading.

8) A presentation page will appear, accompanied by music. Press any key to proceed. If you 
   would like to load a saved game, press L then choose the game number (0-9), otherwise press 
   any other key.

9) If you have a hard disk, it is possible to install the game on it. To install the game, you 
   must make the following command: C>A:INSTALL A then press RETURN. C> is the part of the disk 
   where you want to install the game. A is the drive where you find disk 1 of NIGHT HUNTER, 
   also the data to copy. After having made this command, the game is copied on the hard disk. 
   Follow the instructions of the installation program during the changing of the disks. Once 
   the installation process is finished, you can begin the game by typing C>NIGHT and then 
   RETURN.

Note:

1) It is not possible to exit the program and return to DOS without rebooting the machine.

2) If using the keyboard, unplug the joystick (the joystick interfers with the keyboard 
   controls).

3) The game does not support the Adlib card, therefore there is no introductory music.

4) If you want to save the high score, you must save your game each time that you pass a level.



COMMAND CARD FOR THE AMIGA

This card tells you how to use NIGHT HUNTER on your AMIGA.

I) TO PLAY NIGHT HUNTER, YOU NEED:

- AMIGA 500, 1000, or 2000
- Color monitor
- 1 joystick

II) LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

1) SWITCH OFF YOUR COMPUTER.

2) Plug your joystick into port 2 on your computer.

3) Insert disk 1 in disk drive DFO: and switch on your computer

4) The game will load automatically. After a few seconds you will see a presentation of the 
   game, accompanied by music.

5) To play, press the fire button of your joystick.

6) Before saving a game, make sure that the disk is not write protected.

III) COMMANDS

1) NIGHT HUNTER is played only with the joystick (see manual).

2) To pause the game, press the space bar.

3) It is not possible to play the AMIGA version of NIGHT HUNTER by using the keyboard.



COMMAND CARD FOR THE ATARI ST

This card tells you how to use NIGHT HUNTER on your ATARI.

I) TO PLAY NIGHT HUNTER, YOU NEED:

- ATARI 520, 1040 ST, or the STE.
- Color monitor
- 1 joystick

II) LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

1) SWITCH OFF YOUR COMPUTER

2) Insert disk 1 in disk drive A of your computer and switch it on.

3) The game will load automatically. After a few seconds you will see a presentation of the 
   game, accompanied by music.

4) When the message "INSERT DISK 2" appears on the screen, insert disk 2 in the disk drive and 
   press any key. The game will load automatically.



VAMPIRE

A dead being coming out of a tomb to suck the living's blood. He can change into a bat or a 
werewolf in order to hunt down his victims. The vampire only comes out at night; sunlight would 
be lethal for him. He fears holy water and can not bear the sight of a crucifix. The only way 
to kill him is to pierce his heart with a wooden stake. The most famous vampire is the Count
DRACULA.

Until recently, humanity has been saved from the vampire's reign, thanks to several holy 
medallions which were used to restore a balance between good and evil on earth.

The problem now is that Dracula has decided to appropriate these medallions to create chaos and 
become master of the planet. The Professor Van Helsing, a gallant vampire hunter, has heard 
about the horrible plans of Dracula. He has sent his army of vampire killers, set traps, and 
warned the population so that the vampire will not gather the medallions.



OBJECT OF THE GAME

The game is made up of different levels, each one including 20 panels. To go from one level to 
the next, Dracula must collect 8 objects and find a magic door (a blue or red door). The 8 
objects are made up of 1 scroll, 1 red bottle, 1 cross, and 5 keys. Each key enables you to 
open a door that leads you to other panels of the level (in CGA mode the objects will appear 
as scrolls numbered 1, 2, and 3; keys will remain the same).

Each time Dracula has gone through 5 levels (when you reach a town), he has to collect these 
8 objects and find the medallion in order to pass to the next level. Once the medallion is 
found, you pass directly to the next level. You are not obliged to go through one of the doors 
as in preceeding levels.



I. COMMANDS

A) Joystick

- Use the joystick to move Dracula (plug it in port 0).
- To turn and walk in the desired direction, move the joystick to the right or left.
- To bend down, pull the lever down.
- To collect an object, pull the lever down if the object is on the ground, or press the fire 
  button if it is elevated.
- To use the stairs, pull the lever diagonally (up if you want to climb, down if you want to 
  go down) when you are facing the stairs.

B) Keyboard controls

SPACE BAR - pause on/off

ESC - back ground sound on/off (ONLY ATARI ST) 

Arrow Keys - moves the characters in eight directions

- To change from Dracula into the bat, press the right-down, diagonal arrow key while pressing 
  the fire key.

— To change from Dracula into the werewolf, press the left-down, diagonal arrow key while 
  pressing the fire key.

TAB KEY - Fire



II. FEATURES OF THE CHARACTERS

- If you want to enter a place, stand in the middle of the door or thoroughfare and press the 
  fire button while pulling the lever up.

- To catch an enemy and suck his blood, press the fire button at just the right time to catch 
  his throat. Keep the button pressed to drain his blood.

- To change into a bat, pull the lever diagonally down on the right hand side and press the 
  fire button. You can then fly where you want. To change back into the Vampire, start the 
  same procedure again.

- To change into a werewolf, pull the lever diagonally down on the left hand side and press 
  the fire button. The werewolf moves like the vampire but he can neither collect objects nor 
  enter houses. On the other hand, you can hit your enemies (press the fire button to strike 
  a blow). To change back into the vampire, start the procedure again.



III. THE ENEMIES

All the characters you meet will attempt to kill you.

1) The vampire hunters are armed with wooden stakes. They can kill Dracula by hitting him only 
   once.

2) The priests throw holy water.

3) The archers shoot arrows and if they hit Dracula, they take away many energy points.

4) The witches are invincible.

5) The vultures can not be killed. Be careful not to be caught.

6) The policemen are armed with silver bullets.

7) Professor Von Helsing throws stakes, and he is invincible. He only appears at the end of 
   each level after you have Collected thé 8 objects. If he touches you, you will instantly 
   die.

You will meet other characters, as well, who are armed to wound you.



IV. PANEL

The panel at the bottom of the screen shows you, from left to right:

- your score and the high score.

- your power level (orange bar). It decreases each time you receive a blow from an enemy. When 
  Dracula's power level has reached 0, he dies.

- your time to change into someone else (blue bar). When Dracula changes into someone else, 
  this bar starts to decrease. When it has disappeared, you become a vampire again.

- the number of lives (an additional life each time you have scored 50,000 points).

- the collected objects.



V. HINTS

- The werewolf and the bat change into the vampire when they are wounded.

- Each character according to his aspect has a certain rate of aggressiveness and courage in 
  front of the werewolf and the bat. He also possesses an initial energy and a bonus when he 
  is hit by the werewolf.

- Strange marks on the ground may indicate the location of a trap, which will lead to Dracula's 
  death.

- Day breaks when the moon has reached the right hand side of the screen. To protect Dracula 
  from the sunlight, go in a crypt (they only open in the morning).

- The bat can only land on the ground.

- Van Helsing is your most dangerous enemy, so when he appears, avoid him!

- The objects are not always easily visible on the panels, so look at each panel carefully.

- If you are hit by an enemy while you are a bat or werewolf, you change into the vampire again.

- Some doors can be opened without keys.

- You can not open closed doors bearing a crucifix.

- The bat and the werewolf are not bothered by some weapons, however, the werewolf is killed 
  instantaneously with silver bullets.

- When you are a bat, do not change into a vampire again while you are above water.

- When you are going through a town, it is possible to go down some streets that are located 
  between buildings. These work in the same manner as the doors. Position Dracula in front of 
  the street, pull up on the joystick, and press the fire button. You will then enter into 
  another part of town.

- You can only gather objects when you are in the form of Dracula.

- After you have found the 8 objects on the fifth level, take the street that runs down the 
  middle of the screen to the other part of town, then go as far as possible to the right and 
  enter the room. If the professor is on the second floor, leave the room and then return 
  immediately. If he is on the first floor, change into the bat and fly to the bottom of the 
  stairs. Here, you must transform into Dracula, climb the stairs, and go through the door. 
  Immediately transform into the bat and fly to the first floor. The medallion is here. 
  Position Dracula in front of it and carry out the same action as you would with a door.

- Save your game after each level.



NIGHT HUNTER is a registered trademark of UBI SOFT.

