NODES OF YESOD

PUBLISHER
Odin

AUTHOR

YEAR
1985

CONTROLS
Keyboard, Kempston, Cursor

 KEYS :   Up    - Q to R
          Down  - A to F
          Left  } Alternate bottom
          Right }    row keys

INSTRUCTIONS
Charlemagne "Charlie" Fotheringham-Grunes, apprentice saviour of 
the universe, has been asked to find the source of mysterious
signals from the moon - a large black Monolith (just like
"2001"!). Like any hero should, he promptly volunteers for the
task of finding the Monolith...
 
To get to the Monolith, Charlie needs to find eight keys or
"alchiems", which look rather like crystals. The game begins with
you wandering around on the lunar surface near some mole holes.
Don't fall down a hole; instead wait for a mole to pop up and
stand on it to descend into the caves beneath the moon.

The moon is, it seems, infested with various strange monsters
(such as teddy bears on springs??). Most are merely a nuisance,
blocking your way, but some are definitely harmful. You can
however destroy them by jumping on them and so squashing them.
As well as this, you will have to cope with muggers - astronauts
in red spacesuits whose aim is to rob you of your alchiems.

The task of finding the eight alchiems is complicated by the size
of the cavern system; not all of the access routes are clear, so
you will have to use your friendly mole to make extra tunnels.
The game includes features such as whirlwinds that teleport you
around the caverns, which might make exploring easier or
alternatively leave you somewhere you would rather not be. Huge,
deep shafts also exist, which can mean the certain loss of a life
if you fall down one - unless you are lucky and find that the one
you just fell into has a very powerful up-draft.

Extra lives can also be found scattered around, which is just as
well.  Your vital signs are continuously ticking away, your
current life force is steadily draining and your movements slow
with every beating you take. When you get an extra life you will
also obtain gravity sticks, which render muggers harmless and
also cause all monsters in the immediate area to fall to the
bottom of the cavern. 


SCORES RECEIVED
"Superb and very rewarding." 93% (CRASH #19, August 1985)

SEQUELS/PREQUELS
This game was the prequel to Arc of Yesod.

GENERAL FACTS

NOTES
