ON THE RUN
(Design Design)


THE SCENARIO
Your name is Rick Swift, a troubleshooter hired by the Defence
Department for dangerous missions. In your latest mission you must
enter a deadly area which has been affected by an unfortunate accident
involving experiments in chemical warfare. Strange and weird mutations
of the plant and animal life in the area have occurred, the animals
becoming deadly to the touch.

YOUR MISSION
Contained within the mazes are still six flasks of the dangerous
chemicals which will become active in one hour. Your mission is to
collect all the flasks before this happens. Because of the lethal
nature of the chemicals you have been equipped with a protective suit,
complete with a jet-pack to rapidly move you around the mazes which
you must explore. However, this suit requires energy and this energy
depletes if you come into contact with a mutant. If your energy
reaches zero you will die due to exposure to the deadly chemicals.
Spread throughout the mazes are various objects which may be used to
your advantage; careful experimentation is required!

CONTROLS
"On The Run" has a user definable game control system, which is
explained in the incorporated screen instructions. Joysticks may also
be used and are selected from within the front end.

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS
Set up the Spectrum as detailed in the manual and load with LOAD"".
"On The Run" will now load and auto-run. Please note:- "On The Run" is
a very long program and will take quite a while to load.

SCREEN DISPLAY
The screen shows your immediate surroundings whilst the top lines
display your score, the flasks collected, the time remaining and your
remaining energy as a bar graph.

FEATURES
Sprites!, Mushrooms, Big logo, Frogs, More mushrooms, Teeth, Fluffy
explosions, Even more mushrooms, Continuous error free operation,
Energy mushrooms, Bombs, Automatic collection, Lots and lots of
mushrooms.

DOES NOT FEATURE
Colour vector graphics, Spectacle, BASIL, 6502s, Materialisations,
Orchids, Printer bugs, Leg-warmers, Buns.


Game Design by Design Design Game Design
(Graham Stafford and Stuart Ruecroft)
Graphic Design by Design Design Graphic Design
(Stuart Ruecroft)
Program code by Graham Stafford (Design Design)

"On The Run" was written at a secret software establishment somewhere
in Cheltenham.

This program, documentation and artwork are copyright (c) 1985
by Chandrex Ltd., trading as DESIGN DESIGN software. MON!
