OPERATION THUNDERBOLT
Ocean


SCENARIO
ROY ADAMS IS BACK!
The Hi-jack report came from a DC10 leaving Paris for
Boston - Arab Guerillas were in control of flight 102 and
had turned the aircraft towards Africa ... The plane lands
in hostile territory and the terrorists begin their demands

A rescue operation is called for and there is only one man
to head it up, Roy Adams.

Weary from his Operation Wolf mission, he is persuaded to
put his crack team into a new sortie to free the hostages.

Bringing you enhanced shoot-em-up action for one or two
players, Thunderbolt not only reproduces the horizontally-
scrolling gameplay of Wolf but brings 3D action to the
scenario, pitting you against swooping jets, helicopters,
tanks and many more awesome adversaries!

Get the laser sight, or the bulletproof vest, but watch out
for those air-to-ground missiles! GOOD LUCK IN YOUR
MISSION.


LOADING

CASSETTE
1.	Place the cassette in your recorder ensuring that it is
	fully rewound.
2.	Ensure that the MIC socket is disconnected and that the
	volume and tone controls are set to the appropriate levels.
3.	If the computer is a Spectrum 48K or Spectrum+ then
	load as follows:- Type LOAD "" (ENTER). (Note there is
	no space between the quotes). The " is obtained by
	pressing the SYMBOL SHIFT and P keys simultaneously.
4.	Press PLAY on your recorder and the game will load
	automatically. If you have any problems try adjusting the
	volume and tone controls and consulting Chapter 6 of
	the Spectrum manual.
5.	If the computer is a Spectrum 128K then follow the
	loading instructions on-screen or in the accompanying
	manual.

48k: Each level will load in separately - follow on screen
instructions. Data is on side B of the tape.
128k: The first five levels load in one part, and the
remaining levels are loaded as required - follow on screen
instructions.

SPECTRUM +3 DISK
Set up system and switch on as described in your
instruction manual. Insert disk and press ENTER to choose
'LOADER' option. This program will then load automatically.
Please ensure the disk remains in the drive throughout the
game.


CONTROLS

This is a one or two player game which is controlled by
either Joystick or Keyboard which is fully redefinable. (All
usual Spectrum joysticks.)

PRE-SET KEYS
Q -	UP
A -	DOWN
O -	LEFT
P -	RIGHT
SPACE -	FIRE

KEYS FOR KEYBOARD AND JOYSTICK
T -	PAUSE GAME
R -	FIRE ROCKET
ENTER -	FIRE ROCKET - PLAYER 2 WHEN NOT USING KEYBOARD
F -	START PLAYER 1
G -	START PLAYER 2

EITHER PLAYER MAY JOIN THE GAME AT ANY TIME.


STATUS AND SCORING

The Status Panel displays your Score, Life remaining,
number of bullets remaining, number of magazines
remaining, and number of rockets remaining for either one
or both players.

Also shown are the items held by either player. The item
on the left is the last one collected. The middle item is the
bulletproof vest (if collected) and the item on the right is
the Laser Sight (if collected). When either player's life level
reaches zero then he will die but can restart by pressing his
"player start" button. When both players' energy is zero
there will be a continue play option.

Points are achieved by shooting enemies. At the end of the
game, if successfully completed, points are awarded for the
number of hostages rescued and the life level remaining.


GAME PLAY

The player equipped with sub-machine guns and rockets
must shoot all the enemies who appear on screen.
Remember that your energy and ammunition are limited,
and these can only be replenished by picking up objects
such as magazines and power bottles that appear on
screen or those parachuted down in crates.

LEVEL 1
You must work your way, on foot, through hostile soldiers
and reach the end of the level where an enemy spy is
hiding to complete mission one.

LEVEL 2
You must attack the ammunition depot within a certain
time limit. If you are successful you will receive more
magazines, rockets and bullets.

LEVEL 3
You are driving a jeep and must reach the enemy hideout
where some hostages are being held.

LEVEL 4
You will encounter hostages that have been taken from
the aircraft and imprisoned. To release them you must
shoot the locks on the doors, but avoid shooting them in
the midst of all the action! Beware - at the end of this
mission you will encounter a heavily armed officer and
must use all your skills to defeat him.

LEVEL 5
The boat - battle your way through hostile craft to reach
the enemy headquarters where more hostages are being kept.

LEVEL 6
Inside enemy headquarters - you must rescue the hostages
to complete your mission. Again you will face heavily
armed officers who must be defeated.

LEVEL 7
Make your way down the run-way destroying everything in
your path to reach the get-away aircraft.

LEVEL 8
When you finally reach the hijacked airliner you must walk
up the centre aisle taking out the grenade throwing and
machine-gun blazing hijackers as you go. Take care to avoid
the hostages (children). Once you have reached the cockpit
you must shoot the last hijacker who is using the pilot as a
shield. If you take too long to eliminate him you will not
survive his machine gun fire. If you shoot the pilot your
only means of escape will perish!


HINTS AND TIPS

1.	Pick up all objects that fall from the top of the screen by
	shooting them. These include magazines, power bottles,
	medical packs, bulletproof vests and laser sights.
	Animals, if shot, will sometimes drop these items.
2.	Try not to spray your opponents with bullets as your
	ammunition is limited. Pick your targets carefully.
3.	Destroy the heavy vehicles before the soldiers as they
	inflict more damage.
4.	If you are overwhelmed by soldiers and your energy is
	low, use your grenades.


CREDITS

(c) 1988 Taito Corp. All rights reserved.
Programming by Andrew Deakin
Graphics by Ivan Horn
Music and Sound Effects by Matthew Cannon

Produced by D.C. Ward
(c) 1989 Ocean Software Limited
