                                      PLATOON

You are a raw young recruit in a Platoon of five, deep in enemy territory.
Unprepared for the challenges that lie ahead, realisation dawns that you must
not only survive the physical ordeals but retain your sanity amidst the horrors
and injustices of war.

As the game progresses, you must overcome the hostilities in the different
environments presented to you and ultimately survive with your sanity and morale
intact. There are six sections in this experience, each presenting you with a
more arduous problem. There will be casualties, as in any war, but the first
casualty of that naive young soldier will be his innocence.


CASSETTE

1. Place the cassette in your recorder, ensuring that it is fully rewound.

2. Ensure that the MIC socket is disconnected and that the volume and tone
   controls are set to the appropriate levels.

3. If the computer is a Spectrum 48K or Spectrum+ then load as follows. Type
   LOAD""(ENTER). Note there is no space between the two quotes. The " is
   obtained by pressing the SYMBOL SHIFT and P keys simultaneously.

4. Press PLAY on your recorder and the game will load automatically. If you have
   any problems try adjusting the volume and tone controls and consulting
   Chapter 6 of the Spectrum manual.

5. If the computer is a Spectrum 128K then follow the loading instructions
   on-screen or in the accompanying manual.


NOTE 48K ONLY

Due to the enormous amount of code involved in Platoon the game loads in 3 parts
which are played consecutively.
(You will only be able to load the next section upon completion of your current
one.)


The game sections are as follows:

Load 1 - Jungle 1 and Village
Load 2 - Tunnel Network and Bunker
Load 3 - Jungle 2 and Foxhole


Side A of the tape includes common data which is loaded into memory and then
loads 1, 2 and 3 successively on top of the data. Should you lose (on sections 2
or 3) and have to restart it is not necessary to load in the common data again;
just turn over the tape to Side B and load in the first section (to do this
rewind Side B and load in sections as before). [This information is also carried
in the on-screen prompts, which should be followed at all times.]
NOTE: 128K loads the complete game from Side A only.


SPECTRUM +3

Set up system and switch on as described in your instruction manual. Insert disk
and press ENTER to choose 'LOADER' option. This program will then load
automatically.


GENERAL CONTROLS

Compatible with Kempston, Sinclair and Cursor joysticks.
Usual joystick options for UP, DOWN, LEFT, RIGHT and FIRE.
NOTE: The key for throwing grenades is redefinable for both joystick and
keyboard options. In stages 1 and 2 only, the key for calling up the status
panel is also redefinable as above.


SECTION 1 AND 2:
JUNGLE AND VILLAGE

You must lead your Platoon deep into the depths of the Vietnamese jungle and
ultimately the village. Once there, you will search the huts for useful objects
and ultimately find a trap door in one of the huts that will lead you to an
underground network of tunnels.

The jungle contains many perils, such as armed patrols, booby trapped trip
wires, assassins in trees and concealed "hides" where deadly snipers lie in
wait.  During your trek stay vigilant for a box of explosives left by a previous
platoon, as this must be collected before reaching the bridge, which must be
blown up to prevent a large patrol following your platoon (and effectively
wiping you all out).

To destroy the bridge you must have the aforementioned TNT. When you cross it
the explosive will be automatically planted.

Food, ammunition and medical supplies left by enemy guerillas can be picked up
and used. For best results, spread supplies equally between the soldiers in your
Platoon.

List of objectives in this section:

1. Find explosives.
2. Find bridge.
3. Place explosives on bridge.
4. Find village.
5. Search huts for a torch and map.
6. Find trap door.


CONTROLS

You control one man at a time using your joystick.

UP           - JUMP/WALK UP/ENTER HUT/EXAMINE OBJECT
LEFT         - WALK LEFT
RIGHT        - WALK RIGHT
DOWN         - DUCK/WALK DOWN/LEAVE HUT
FIRE         - SHOOT
SPACE        - THROW GRENADE

NOTE: Whether you jump or walk up when pressing UP on the joystick is determined
by whether there is an exit above you or not. The same rule applies for pressing
down. The EXAMINE OBJECT facility is only available when inside a hut and in
front of the required object.


STATUS AND SCORING

MORALE: This is a collective indication as to the state of your Platoon. Morale
decreases every time one of your platoon is wounded and when an unarmed
Vietnamese villager is shot. When the morale is at zero then your platoon is
considered inactive and the game is over. Morale can be increased by collecting
food and medical supplies.

HITS: Every time one of the platoon is wounded, he will collect a HIT. When he
as collected four HITS then he will die, signified on the status panel as
"retired in action". When all five members of the platoon are dead, the game is
over.

AMMUNITION: Number of grenades left, and rounds of ammunition left. These can be
increased by collecting ammunition left around.

SCORE: This is increased by removing enemy soldiers, collecting useful objects
and destroying the bridge as well as any traps. A large bonus is obtained when
this section is completed, depending on the number of active members of the
platoon left.


HINTS AND TIPS

* Watch out for the enemy jumping out of the trees above you, or appearing out
  of trapped doors near your feet - a well placed grenade will destroy the
  latter.

* When a member of your platoon is seriously injured (i.e. two or more hits),
  transfer control to another soldier to ensure as many as possible of your
  platoon survive.

* When you are about to pick up food or medical supplies, transfer to the
  member of your platoon most in need of them.

* It is recommended that you map out this section in order to complete it.


SECTION 3:
TUNNEL NEWORK

Leaving the rest of the platoon in the village, you volunteer to go down the
trap door, whereupon you find yourself in an underground tunnel system. You
already have a torch and a map to enable you to find your way around, as shown
on the right hand side of the screen, and your position is indicated by an arrow
pointing in the direction you are facing.

Beware - the tunnels are densely populated with guerillas who must be shot on
sight. They usually appear from around the corners, but some of them have a
sneaky habit of swimming through the waters of the tunnel and springing up in
front of you...and that knife isn't for decoration! The tunnel also contains a
number of rooms in which you may find valuable items, such as Red Cross boxes
(to heal one of your "HITS") and ammunition. It is also essential that you find
two boxes of flares and a compass for the next section (when you enter a room
you may be confronted by a guerilla, or one of the boxes may be booby-trapped).


CONTROLS

You control your movements and that of the crosshair (gunsight) with your
joystick.

There are three control modes:

UP    - (A) Walk forward/(B & C) Move crosshair up
LEFT  - (A) Rotate left/(B & C) Move crosshair left
RIGHT - (A) Rotate right/(B & C) Move crosshair right
DOWN  - (B & C) Move crosshair down
FIRE  - (A & B) Shoot/(C) Examine object

CONTROL MODE A

Moving through the tunnels. When an enemy soldier appears, control changes
to Mode B.

CONTROL MODE B

Moving the crosshair in the tunnels. Move it over your target and press FIRE. If
you score a hit, control will revert back to Mode A.

CONTROL MODE C

When you enter a room, move the crosshair and press FIRE to examine objects. If
needed they are automatically taken. To leave the room, press FIRE with the
crosshair over the exit icon (bottom right).


STATUS AND SCORING

MORALE: This is a collective indication as to the state of your Platoon. Morale
decreases every time you are wounded. When the morale is at zero, then your
platoon is considered inactive and the game is over. Morale can be increased by
collecting food and medical supplies.

HITS: Every time you are wounded you will collect a HIT. When you have collected
four HITS then you will die, and the game is over.

AMMUNITION: Rounds of ammunition left.

SCORE: This is increased with every successful encounter with Viet Cong, upon
finding useful objects and finding the exit.


HINTS AND TIPS

* There are no villages in this section so everyone is assumed to be an enemy.

* Search all rooms and remember where booby-trapped boxes are.


SECTION 4:
THE BUNKER

Upon finding the exit in the tunnel system you find yourself in a foxhole. Night
has fallen. You are tired and doubtful of the terrain and position of the enemy,
so you decide to rest in the foxhole until confirmation comes through from base
camp. Unfortunately, a group of guerillas suspect your location and will have no
hesitation in attacking. You have your machine gun and a supply of flares to
light up the night sky in order to see the enemy silhouetted against the
horizon, but be prudent - supplies are limited, as is the time of illumination.
You must ensure that you do shoot each man you see, as your own muzzle flash
will give away your position and anyone who is left standing will find it easy
to locate and kill you.


CONTROLS

The joystick moves the gunsight. A flare is released by placing the gun sight
over the flare gun (bottom right) and pressing FIRE.

UP    - MOVE CROSSHAIR UP
DOWN  - MOVE CROSSHAIR DOWN
LEFT  - MOVE CROSSHAIR LEFT
RIGHT - MOVE CROSSHAIR RIGHT
FIRE  - SHOOT


STATUS AND SCORING

MORALE: This is a collective indication as to the state of your platoon. Morale
decreases every time you are wounded. When the morale is at zero, then your
platoon is considered inactive and the game is over.

HITS: Every time you are wounded, you will collect a HIT. When you have
collected four HITS then you will die, and the game is over.

AMMUNITION: Rounds of ammunition left.
            Number of flares left.

SCORE: Your score is increased by shooting attackers.


HINTS AND TIPS

* Shoot attackers immediately.

* Conserve ammunition and flares by sending flares up regularly and removing
  each attacker with a short, well placed burst of gun fire - not a long,
  inaccurate barrage.


SECTION 5:
THE JUNGLE

Having survived a harrowing and sleepless night, you go in search of Sergeant
Elias - your platoon leader. However, you meet Sergeant Barnes who informs you
that Elias is dead, killed in combat. Shortly after however, you see from a
distance that Elias is in fact alive and being relentlessly pursued by
guerillas.  In front of your very eyes you see your Sergeant mowed down in a
hail of gun fire and at that moment a little bit more of your innocence and
sanity is eroded. Pondering on the information given to you by Sergeant Barnes
you realise that in fact he is indirectly responsible for the death of Elias by
not aiding him.

Before you can collect your thoughts more thoroughly you hear a crackle come
over the radio - a transmission from the General. An air strike is planned for
precisely 10:00 hours. That means that the section of the jungle you are in is
to be napalmed in two minutes, as it is crawling with guerillas. That just about
gives you time to reach a safe area, and take cover from the airborne onslaught.
You have been given the compass bearings of a particular safe area and you must
make your way there immediately.


GAME PLAY

The compass (top right) indicates the direction that you are facing. Always head
in a northerly direction. Each screen depicts a view of a portion of the jungle
you are in. Run to the top of each area, avoiding the Viet Cong fire, snipers
and any other hazards, such as barbed wire and half buried mines. There are
several routes through the jungle; some will enable you to make your destination
in time, while others will not.


CONTROLS

Using the joystick move your man around the obstacles, avoiding enemy fire. Take
a left or right turn at the top of each area.

LEFT  - MOVE LEFT
RIGHT - MOVE RIGHT
UP    - MOVE UP THE SCREEN
DOWN  - MOVE BACK DOWN THE SCREEN
FIRE  - SHOOT


HINTS AND TIPS

* Find out which is the quickest route and use it every time. Keep moving,
  as enemy fire is directed straight at you.

* In order to make good time certain screens will have to be rushed. Other,
  more difficult screens, may be negotiated after you have cleared the way
  of all visible attackers.


SECTION 6:
THE FOXHOLE

Having reached the area you were told was safe, you find that Sergeant Barnes is
in a foxhole. He realised your suspicions about him and Sergeant Elias, and sees
this as an ideal opportunity to eliminate you without witnesses or any other
evidence. Ensconced in his foxhole, he fires his machine gun and throws grenades
at you. With the air strike imminent and vengeance for the unfortunate Sergeant
Elias playing on your mind you realise there is only one sensible course of
action. You must remove Barnes from the bunker in order to avoid the napalm. The
cover that is afforded Barnes makes machine gun fire rather ineffective, leaving
you with the only option of a frontal assault with your grenades. You must, in
fact, score five direct hits with your grenades into the foxhole. You will find
the box of grenades at the start of the screen and these must be picked up
immediately.


CONTROLS

LEFT  - MOVE LEFT
RIGHT - MOVE RIGHT
UP    - MOVE UP SCREEN
DOWN  - MOVE BACK DOWN THE SCREEN
FIRE  - THROW GRENADE


STATUS AND SCORING

Your score is increased with each successful hit on Barnes' foxhole, and with
his final destruction should you last that long!


HINTS AND TIPS

* Keep moving for reasons already discussed.
* Pick up your grenades immediately.


This computer game is packed with fun and excitement - many, many hours of
programming work have been put in to ensure the maximum playing experience. To
get the most from this title please read the instructions carefully and follow
the screen prompts - that way you'll be sure that none of the action is missed!

Its program code and graphic representation are the copyright of Ocean Software
Limited and may not be reproduced, stored, hired or broadcast in any form
whatsoever without the written permission of Ocean Software Limited. All rights
reserved worldwide.

This software product has been carefully developed and manufactured to the
highest quality standards. Please read carefully the instructions for loading.
IF FOR ANY REASON YOU HAVE DIFFICULTY IN RUNNING THE PROGRAM, AND BELIEVE THAT
THE PRODUCT IS DEFECTIVE, PLEASE RETURN IT DIRECT TO:

MR. YATES, OCEAN SOFTWARE LIMITED, 6 CENTRAL STREET, MANCHESTER M2 5NS.

Our quality control department will test the product and supply an immediate
replacement if we find a fault. If we cannot find a fault the product will be
returned to you at no charge. Please note that this does not affect your
statutory rights.

Game Design by Ocean Software Limited.
ｩ 1988 Ocean Software Limited.
ｩ 1987 Hemdale Film Corporation. All rights reserved.
TRACKS OF MY TEARS by Smokey Robinson. Licensed from B.M.G. Records (U.K.)
Limited.
ｮ Motown Record Corporation.
SPECTRUM
Conversion by Choice Software.
