Red Moon
from Level 9 Computing

A Magical adventure game with 200 pictures on most micros
(check the gold label):

  Level 9 Computing specialise in big adventures with over 200
locations, detailed scenery and interesting storylines. Thins means
more enjoyment for you and we'll send a free cluesheet if you get
stuck.

  All adventures have SAVE and RESTORE commands for the state of play
and graphic games have PICTURES and WORDS to turn graphics on and off.
This game has graphics on most micros, but don't worry if the version
for your micro is pure-text. The puzzles are the same and there is
more room for longer messages.

  The game, Red Moon, re-enacts a tale from the time where Magik still
worked and when mythical monsters guarded fabulous treasure.
  You have the use of many weapons and a dozen different magical
spells to help you rescue the Red Moon Crystal, only source of Magik
in the land.
  For more about the game, read the other side of this cover sheet.

Here's what reviewers hae said about Level 9.
"the ultimate adventure house"
             - Computing with the Amstrad
"The appearance of a new program from Level 9 is a flag day for all
aspiring aventurers"
             - Popular Computing Weekly
"You really can't go wrong with any Level 9 game as they are all
brilliant"
             - Crash

Other Games
"""""""""""
Red Moon is Level 9's third true graphical adventure, following
Emerald Isle and Erik the Viking. It has pictures on most computers,
even the BBC micro. Out other games are basically pure-text, sometimes
with pictures on larger micros. The full range is (June 85):
 1) Colossal Adventure   "Middle Earth" Trilogy
 2) Adventure Quest
 3) Dungeon Adventure
 4) Snowball             "Silicon Dream" Trilogy
 5) Return to Eden
 6) The Worm in Paradise (designed by Pete Austin and now being coded)
 7) Lords of Time
10) Erik the Viking      (with Terry Jones / Mosaic Publishing)
11) Emerald Isle
12) Red Moon

                        RED MOON
                        """"""""
  The old storyteller shuffles to her place in the market, noting with
satisfaction that a crowd has already gathered. She sits, takes a sip
from the leather flask at her side, and begins.
  "Once upon a time, when the moon was still red, there lived a
magician. He, or she, for you can never be quite sure when sorcery is
involved, was not the best magician in the world. But it was alread
the age of failing powers when simple spells worked best. This is the
tale of how that magician kept Magik alive.
  "When the World was new, gods walked upon the Earth and even animals
could talk. Magicians were powerful then. Death, or "time", as some
call it, had not been invented.
  "Magik needs the moon as plants need the sun, and people need both,
for thought is magical and all flesh is grass. Then, in the first days
of Earth, the moon was not dim as now but glowed with a cold crimson
light: the colour of Magik and as bright as the sun. There was so much
power that spells were easy as blinking, and so it went for a thousand
years.
  "Overhead, the hot sun and the cold moon circled through the skies,
each throwing its own kind of light on the World. But, every so often,
their paths crossed.
  "Even today, whenever the moon blocks the sun, their fighting hurls
dragons into space, and their early battles were a thousand times
fiercer. Anyway, after each battle the Moon was weaker and paler -
until now it's scarred and charred like grey and white ash. And its
moonlight is white with little power.
  "Magik faded with the moon. First to go were the gods, and no one
minded that much. You had to watch your language very carefully, I'm
told, when they were around, and gods were very insistent indeed about
being worshipped properly. Then the mythical beasts, which once
ventured abroad by day, became restricted to the night when the moon
was stronger. Now they are only seen at full moon.
  "Well, the conservationists made a fuss, of course, but no one
listened. Then, one day at midday, all the cloud castles of all the
Magicians fell out of the sky: their spells had failed. And because
there was no magical power left to replay events, their inhabitants
could not be saved.
  "When the moon rose that evening, its weak light restoring Magik to
the World, the surviving Magicians met to decide their future. I'll
tell the story of that gathering another day. They found that Magik of
the level needed to revive the moon was no longer possible. Even a
brave attempt by Wavyhill and The Warlock to use the power of the last
god on Earth could not succeed, but that's for another day as well.
  "What could be done, though not easily, was to build a new moon. And
so the 'Red Moon Crystal' was made as a new source of Magik. While
much, much too weak to illuminate the whole World, this crystal was
mounted in the Moon Tower in Baskalos to shine out over the kingdom.
  "So Baskalos remained as island of Magik and enlightened
civilisation. And so it is still, especially under the rule of our
noble King, even now when the moon is grey and the Dark Ages have
overtaken the Earth.
  "But, to return to my story, Baskalos nearly fell to barbarism with
the rest, for the moon crystal was stolen. My story today is of the
Magician who recovered it and saved out country.
  "Now, if you'll each put a coin in the hat which my assistant is
carrying among you, I'll tell you the tale ..."

Magik
"""""
To cast a spell, enter: CAST  spell-name  optional-target
For example:            CAST  ESCAPE  or  CAST SNOOP NORTH

Spell        Focus        Action
"""""        """""        """"""
BOUNCE       BLACK BALL   Reverse fall
ESCAPE       DULCIMER     Teleport to/from start
EXTINGUISH   FAN          Put out fire
FIND         LAMP         Locate object
MAGIC        MEDALLION    Is object magic?
RESTORE      none         Restoe
SAVE         none         Save
SHIELD       CLOAK        Ward off attacks for a while
SNOOP        PEARL        Look into nearby room
STRONG       SPICES       Become stronger for a while
TREASURE     GLOVES       Is object valuble?
ZAP          DAGGER       Attack enemy magically

Playing the game
""""""""""""""""
  The adventure asks "What now?" (or something similar) whenever it
expects you to type another command. Simply type a short English
phrase, followed by ENTER or RETURN, to tell it what you want to do
next.
  If the game stops dead for no apparant reason, then it is probably
printing a very long message and has paused to let you read the first
part of the text before it scrolls off the top of the screen. When
you've read it, press SHIFT or RETURN and the game will continue.
  The game understands hundreds of words, many of which can be
abbreviated (e.g. NORTH to N and NORTHEAST to NE). Here are some
useful words known by Level 9 adventures - most will work in this
game: TAKE, GET, WEAR, DROP, the 8 main compass directions, IN, OUT,
UP, DOWN, LEFT, RIGHT, CLIMB, LOOK, LISTEN, LOOK AT, EXAMINE, FILL,
OPEN, CLOSE, LIGHT, SCORE, QUIT, TAKE or DROP EVERYTHING, SAVE and
RESTORE (see above), AGAIN (repeat previous command), INVENTORY (list
what is carried, and WORDS and PICTURES (turn pictures off/on in a
graphics game).
  Level 9 games use many words in descriptions that they will not
understand in your sentences. For example, you might read
"Black clouds hide the sun, plunging the world into twilight."
However, if the game doesn't understand the words SUN or CLOUDS in
your input, you can assume that they are not important for completing
the adventure, but are included only to enhance your mental picture
of the scene.
  The games try to be as helpful as possible. For example, if you are
"deep in a narrow gully between walls of jagged rock" and try typing
"TAKE ROCK", the game might reply "You can't see a space rocket". This
looks odd at first sight, but it tells you that the game does not know
the word ROCK (presumably it's just scenery), and also that there is a
rocket elsewhere which does matter in the game and whose name can be
abbreviated to save typing. Much better than responding "You can't see
it"!
  In general, the game should understand if you keep commands simple.
If the program doesn't know what you mean then you are probably trying
something which is not important in the story. It can be worth
rephrasing commands, though, and with a little practise you'll
discover the best words to use. Good adventuring!

Combat
""""""
You may need to fight some of the creatures you find in this
adventure. If you do attack something, consider carrying a weapon and
wearing armour first. Magik may help.

Scoring
"""""""
The main aim of the game is to recover the Red Moon Crystal, and you
score points for making progress towards this goal. In addition, you
score 50 points for collecting each of 9 treasures which you should
find along the way. Naturally, you should avoid getting killed.
