ROLLER COASTER

GAME FEATURES

- 94% rating in Crash!
- 60 full screens for hours and hours of fairground fun.
- Log flume, Roller Coaster, Big Wheel, Ghost Train... everything you'd expect
  from a day out at the fair.


INTRODUCTION

Roll up, roll up, for all the thrills and spills of the greatest rides on Earth!
All the fun of the fair is right here at your fingertips, so prepare yourself
for the most exhilarating time of your life!

See the miners at work in the Gold Mine; ride the Ghost Train (if you dare) and
go for a breathtaking ride on the Log Flume - but don't get your feet wet! Sixty
fast-moving, all-action screens are awaiting your discovery, your final conquest
being the vast, high-speed and stomach-churning ROLLER COASTER. Ride it at your
peril!


SCENARIO

Colonel G. Bogey's Pleasure Park is in full swing - but what's this?! A
disgruntled employee has swiped the takings and left them scattered all over the
fairground: and he's sabotaged all the rides so that they can't be switched off!

The Colonel's closed the Park - but can he get his money back? The only way he
can do it is to ride the rides - but at the speed they're going it looks like
suicide to try. Is it worth it? Of course it is!

'Way to go, Colonel!


LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

SPECTRUM (Cassette)	LOAD""


PLAYING INSTRUCTIONS

Joystick: Kempston, Interface II compatible.

KEYS:
Left		= O
Right		= P
Jump		= Caps Shift
Run Faster	= M


(C) 1985 ELITE SYSTEMS LTD.

All rights reserved worldwide. Unauthorised copying, lending, broadcasting or
resale without the express written permission of Elite Systems Ltd. is strictly
prohibited.


GUARANTEE

This software product has been carefully developed and manufactured to the
highest quality standards. Please read carefully the instructions for loading
which are included. If for any reason you have difficulty in running the
program, and believe that the product is defective, please return it directly to
the following address:

	Customer Services Dept.,
	Elite Systems Ltd.,
	Anchor House,
	Anchor Road,
	Aldridge,
	Walsall,
	WS9 8PW.

Our Quality Control Department will test the product and supply an immediate
replacement at no extra cost. Please note that this does not affect your
statutory rights.
