THE SIMPSONS (BART VS. THE SPACE MUTANTS)

A WORD FROM BART SIMPSON

Hello, fellow humans. Bartholomew J. Simpson here with a very
important secret:

SPACE MUTANTS ARE INVADING SPRINGFIELD!

That's right, man! A buncha slimy, horrible totally gross and putrid
monsters are taking over the bodies of the people who live there and
they wanna build a weapon that's gonna take over the entire planet!
Pretty cool, huh?

Anyway, yours truly is the only one who can see 'em cause of my X-Ray
glasses so it's up to me to stop 'em! I've gotta spraypaint things,
get radical on my skateboard, use my trusty slingshot and in general,
behave like a nuisance, man. Plus, with evil dudes like Nelson the
bully and Sideshow Bob getting in my way, it's a good thing I've got
the rest of the Simpsons to help me out! So if you're a decent person,
a patriot and somebody who cares about this sorry planet, you'll do
the right thing.

Save the Earth! PLAY THIS GAME! Thanks, man.

LOADING

SPECTRUM

CASSETTE 128K ONLY

Place the cassette in the recorder ensuring that it is fully rewound.
Select LOADER option and press RETURN key. Press PLAY on your recorder
- the game will now load automatically

SPECTRUM +3 DISK

Set up system and switch on as described in your instruction
manual. Insert disk and press ENTER to choose LOADER option. This
program will then load automatically.

CASSETTE CPC 464

Place the rewound cassette in the deck, type RUNT and then press the
ENTER/RETURN key. Follow the instructions as they appear on-screen. If
there is a disk drive attached, then type |TAPE then press
ENTER/RETURN key. Then type RUN"" and press ENTER/RETURN key (The |
symbol is obtained by holding shift and pressing the @ key).

CPC 664 and 6128

Connect a suitable cassette tape recorder ensuring that the correct
leads are attached as defined in the User instruction Booklet. Place
the rewound tape in the cassette recorder and type |TAPE then press
the ENTER/RETURN key. Then type RUN"" and press the ENTER/RETURN
key. Follow the on-screen instructions.

DISK

Insert the program disk into the drive with the A side facing
upwards. Type |DISC and press the ENTER/RETURN key to make sure that
the machine can access the drive, Now type RUN"DISC" and press
ENTER/RETURN, the game will load automatically.

COMMODORE

Position the cassette in your Commodore recorder with the printed side
upwards and wake sure that it is rewound to the beginning Ensure that
all the leads are connected. Press the SHIFT key and the RUN/STOP key
simultaneously. Follow the on-screen instructions - PRESS PLAY ON TAPE
This program will then load automatically, For C128 loading type GO 64
(RETURN), then follow C64 instruction. PLEASE NOTE: This game loads in
a number of parts: follow on-screen instructions.

DISK

Select 64 mode (if using Commodore 128). Turn on the disk drive,
insert the program into the drive with the label facing upwards.  Type
LOAD "*",8,1 (RETURN) the introductory screen will appear and the
program will then load automatically.

CONTROLS

This is a one player game controlled by Joystick only.

To move Bart push the joystick left or right in the appropriate direction.

To jump: push the joystick UP
To jump higher: keep pushing the joystick UP

To walk faster: move left or right whilst pushing UP on the joystick.

To shoot weapons or spray-paint: press FIRE.

To scroll through the inventory hold down the joystick and press
fire. Release joystick when item required appears in the window.

To use an inventory item pull down on the joystick and then release
it.

To Pause: select PAUSE in the inventory and press FIRE (C64 only).

For a super long jump: Press FIRE and UP together.

While on the skateboard hold down FIRE and press UP or DOWN to move
the skateboard's position.

THE STATUS SCREEN

The Status Screen displays Number of hits left in current life,
inventory items, Simpson's family member name as alien proofs are
collected, score, lives, time left to complete level, weapon meter
(how much ammo is left) and goals remaining to be collected on each
level.

GETTING THE FAMILY TO HELP

If he tried hard enough, Bart could probably save the world alone, of
course. But it'd sure be easier if Homer, Marge, Lisa and Maggie could
help him. The problem is, Bart doesn't exactly have the best
reputation for telling the truth, so he first has to convince his
family he's not making this story up. How does he do it? By jumping on
the heads of the people whose bodies have been taken over by
Mutants. This forces the Mutants out of the bodies they've been
controlling. They then leave behind proof of their existence that Bart
must pick up before it disappears. Each time he gets one, a letter in
the name of one of the Simpsons appears under their picture in the
Status Screen. When their name is completely spelled out, that family
member helps Bart battle the archenemy waiting for him at the end of
the level.  Important Note: Don't let Bart jump on the head of someone
who isn't taken over by a Mutant! To learn who is and isn't a Mutant,
use the x-ray specs.

X-RAY SPECS

Make sure the X-Ray specs have been selected from the inventory. Then
pull down on the joystick and Bart will look through the glasses and
be able to tell which people have been taken over by the Mutants. Be
careful; if he hops on the head of someone who hasn't been taken over
he'll be penalized one hit.

GOALS

These are the ingredients the Mutants need to build their Ultimate
Weapon, which they'll use to conquer the world. To save the Earth,
Bart must collect, destroy, hide, change, and otherwise ruin these
objects so the aliens can't gather them up. He must collect the amount
of items shown on the Status Screen, fight off and avoid a bunch of
enemies along the way and then do battle with some evil familiar foes
at the end of each level. If Bart manages to complete an entire level,
the Mutants modify their machine so it can use some other ingredient.

Level 1: The Streets of Springfield

PURPLE-COLOURED OBJECTS

Purple objects are the first ingredients the Mutants need for their
Ultimate Weapon. Be on the lookout for anything coloured purple. Bart
will be able to use spray-paint in this level, but he won't be able to
spray everything. Try to be creative and figure out other ways he can
get rid of the purple objects.

Level 2: The Springfield Shopping Mall

HATS

Hats are the Mutants' second choice for building their weapon. Collect
as many as you can, but if you come across people who are wearing
hats, Bart must first knock the hat off their head before he can
collect it.

Level 3: Krustyland Amusement Park

BALLOONS

Balloons are the next ingredient the Mutants will be after. Bart can
find them at the Krustyland Amusement Park. He can grab the balloons
or shoot them with his slingshot (which is easier) but first he's got
to find his slingshot. Bart can also play games of skill and chance at
Krustyland. Here's how:

C64 - Push UP on the joystick when he's standing in front of a game.
SPECTRUM/AMSTRAD - Select a coin when he's standing in front of a game.

Then you'll see instructions on what to do next. If he has to shoot or
throw press the FIRE button. (C64 only) - If he has to place a bet,
move the Joystick LEFT or RIGHT to move the coin, and press FIRE to
stars the wheel spinning. Remember to have enough coins to play, and
also remember that Bart might sometimes have to jump to hit a target.

Level 4 : Springfield Museum of Natural History

EXIT SIGNS

The next ingredient is exit signs, which the Mutants have snuck into
the museum after hours to steal. Bart can touch these signs to collect
them, but some of them are pretty high up. If he can't reach them, use
tasers guns, which you can pick up along the way. Watch out for the
laser alarms and just about everything else here - some things take on
a life of their own past closing time.

Level 5 : Springfield Nuclear Power Plant

POWER RODS

Nuclear power rods are the final ingredient the Mutants can use to
build their machine. Bart must make his way around the Power Plant
where Homer works, collecting all the rods he can find. Then he has to
hightail it to the basement and put them back in the reactor. The
maximum amount of rods he can carry at one time is 4 and they're
displayed on the Status Screen where the Simpsons faces were. The
reason the faces aren't shown there anymore is because they're all at
the plant helping Bart

The Elevator and Stairs

Bart can't move around the plant unless he uses the elevators or the
stairs. To move Bart into the elevator he has to be standing right in
front of it. Press the FIRE button and the elevator will arrive at his
floor and the door will open. Push UP on the joystick and he'll
enter. Push LEFT or RIGHT to pick the destination floor, and then
press the FIRE button again.

(C64 only) When he gets to that floor, push DOWN on the joystick to
exit. Note: Some elevators stop at all floors, some are express.

Bart Entering a Stairway

If you want Bart to use the stairs, push UP on the joystick and he'll
go in the door. When he's in hold down the FIRE button while pressing
UP or DOWN on the joystick to pick the destination floor. Release the
FIRE button.  C64 only - you must also push DOWN on the joystick to
exit the stairway. Bart can only travel to one floor at a time.

WEAPONS

Bart is only allowed to shoot at goals and anything else that's firing
or throwing something at him. The way to get weapons is to pick them
up as you go along, so keep your eyes peeled. Bart can only use these
weapons in the level he finds them in, and pressing the FIRE button
fires them. After Bart's collected a weapon, he carries it with him at
all times until the ammo's used up. Then he loses that weapon and has
to find a new one to do more damage with. Bart can pick up and carry
as many weapons as he can find. But each time he uses one, his ammo
supply goes down (paint, darts, slingshot rocks). The Status Screen
shows how much ammo he has left.

Spraypaint

You can find these cans on the streets of Springfield. Bart will need
them to change the colour of some of the purple objects, so don't
waste paint!

Slingshot

There are plenty of these around at the Krustyland Amusement Park. You
get 12 shots with each one. (SPECTRUM/AMSTRAD: 6 shots)

Dart Gun

Find these on display at the Natural History Museum. Each one's got 12
shots. (SPECTRUM/AMSTRAD: 6 shots)

OTHER USEFUL ITEMS

Bart starts out the game with 10 coins, but he'll need a lot
more. Coins are necessary to buy things and play games: and for every
15 he collects, he gets an extra life. When he gets that extra life
though, 10 coins are subtracted from inventory. There are other useful
objects that will come in handy in the heat of the battle. Try to
figure out what they are and how and where to use them. One thing to
keep in mind though you usually can't use something unless you've
bought it.

How to Buy

Bart can buy items in most of the Springfield stores. If he's standing
by a store entrance, push UP on the joystick and he'll go right
in. The owner will ask him what he wants. Push LEFT or RIGHT on the
joystick to choose an item. Then the FIRE button for each one you want
to buy. The item will go into inventory. To get Bart out of the store,
push DOWN on the joystick. Remember, these items cost money, so make
sure Bart has enough coins. And here's a little tip about the rockets:
If you want Bart to fire one, hurry up and make him light it. Those
sparklers don't last forever.

LIVES

Bart gets a total of 3 lives. For each life he uses, Bart can sustain
two hits. The second time Bart is hit, he loses that life. The only
times Bart can lose one full life immediately is when he falls into a
pit, wet cement, quicksand etc. Bart gets extra lives (sometimes one,
sometimes more than one) when he finds the Krusty faces, and one extra
life for every 15 coins he collects. Each of those lives consists of
two hits.

Remember, the other Simpsons will only help Bart in Levels 1-4 if he
can get enough alien proofs to make them believe him. If he makes it
to Level 5, the Power Plant, the whole family will be there for him.

MARGE

Bart's loving mom will be at the mall if he needs her, and at the
Power Plant to ease his burden.

HOMER

Bart's dad will watch out for him at the museum, and at the plant too,
but only if Bart finds him some boxes of donuts.

LISA

Bart's brainy sister can help out at Krustyland, and the two can make
a winning combination at the Power Plant.

MAGGIE

Bart's baby sister who is too young to talk, but not too young to
help.

BART'S FRIENDS

Crusty the Clown: TV show host and Bart's comedy hero. Look for him to
get extra lives.

Jebediah Springfield: The beloved founder of Springfield who can give
Bart the power of invincibility.

BART'S FOES

The chief Mutants have sent these soldiers to carry out their plan:

Zebloid: These hairy aliens hop up and down and back and forth.

Glondip: They mostly crawl around the ground, but some of them hop up
and down.

Killer Klown: They can be found all around Krustyland, trying to help
the Mutants wipe Bart out.

This next bunch is totally evil: Bart's fought them all before. Now
they want revenge - even if it means selling out the Earth to the
Mutants!

Nelson: Springfield Elementary's biggest bully. His weapons of choice
are water balloons at 20 paces.

Ms. Botz: The notorious babysitter bandit, a fugitive on the loose,
and one of America 's most armed and dangerous. She stashes what she
steals in suitcases and maybe Bart can use that against her.

Sideshow Bob: Once he was Krusty the Clown's faithful friend, then he
became a traitor. Now he's out on parole, and his feet are as big as
ever.

Dr. Marvin Monroe: Local family counsellor, radio call-in show host,
quack. He likes using shock therapy, but lately he's gone soft in the
head.

Adil: Albanian superspy, explosives expert and former foreign exchange
student

Jimbo: The absolute worst kid in school, a skateboard freak and the
only teenager in fifth grade.

SCORING

You can earn points for defeating enemies and accomplishing certain
tasks. Here's what they're worth:

ITEM				POINTS
End of level enemies		1,000
Major enemies within level	  500
Removing alien from human	  200
Proof				  100
Goal				  100
Jebediah Head (invincibility)	   50
Coin				   50
Complete level		Time remaining on clock X 10

HINTS AND TIPS

1. Always check the clock and keep track of the time.
2. Try jumping on things, around things, and on top of things. You
   never know what will turn up.
3. In Springfield try to discover what ledges Bart can stand on.
4. There are lots of ways to get rid of purple-coloured objects. Be
   creative and experiment!
5. At the mall, Bart can't jump on a lollipop if its stick is pointed
   straight up or down.
6. Collect plenty of Krusty faces, weapons and coins.
7. There are warp zones, so try to discover them. Keep in mind that
   Bart can only warp to another place in the same level.
