SOFTAID
-------

The organisers wish to thank the
following companies and the authors of the
titles included in this compilation.

A'n'F           Ocean
Activision      Psion
Beyond          Quicksilva
Bug-Byte        Realtime
The Edge        Taskset
Elite           Thor
Fantasy         Virgin
Interceptor     US Gold
Melbourne House

Argus Press Group
East Midlands Allied Press
Home Computer Trade Weekly
IPC Business Press
Your Computer Magazine
Sunshine Publications

Duplication by: Ablex Audio-Video Ltd.
Distributed by: Microdealer U.K. Ltd.
Artwork: David John Rowe
Graphics: Peter Young Graphic Design
PR: Meridian Public Relations
Printing: Beshara Press
Photography: Gordon Hammond
Proceeds to: The Bob Geldof Band-Aid
     Ethiopian Appeal Fund

The offers of support from Artic, Llamasoft,
Micromega, PSS, Softek, Software
Projects, are also appreciated.

The efforts of all contributors to the
appeal are gratefully acknowledged.

SOFTAID - Feed The World

If you have a tape counter on your cassette
recorder, set it to zero after rewinding the
cassette. This will enable you to select the
appropriate program by fast-forwarding to
the corresponding number.

LOADING THE PROGRAM
The procedure for loading a program is
given in the Spectrum Manual, chapter 20.
The steps are as follows:
1. Connect the ear socket of your Spectrum
   to the ear socket of your cassette
   recorder.
2. Run the tape to the beginning of the
   program that you wish to load.
3. Set the volume control to a suitable level.
4. Type LOAD"" and press the ENTER key.
5. Start the cassette recorder.
The program will RUN itself once loaded.

(C)Please do not make unauthorised copies
of this tape. It is an attempt by those
involved to help the Bob Geldof Band Aid
Ethiopian Appeal Fund alleviate one of the
world's worst natural disasters. Each tape
sold will feed the hungry, so if you want a
copy, GO OUT AND BUY ONE.

SIDE ONE

0000    Do they know it's Christmas? -
        Band Aid

0054	Spellbound — Beyond

You have been captured and turned into a
toad by Griselda and her pet spider,
Manfred. You must escape from the
pyramid by treading on every one of the
pyramid steps. You get Three lives in each
level and there are twelve levels in all and
in each level Griselda sends different
demons, ghosts, skeletons, spells etc. after
you.

Joystick or keyboard control. Keys are: Q
for Up/Left, P for Up/Right, Z for
Down/Left and M for Down/Right. S to
start again.


0126	Starbike — The Edge

Your task is to rescue the Orola who
escaped by retreat pod when their planet
was blown to pieces and who were flung to
the far corners of the galaxy.

When the game starts, you will be
presented with an opportunity to alter the
settings of sound, speech and control as
signified by three pictures.

Pressing A-G alters the options. Pressing
Q-T selects a choice of these options. You
should then select 'game controls' first.

Keyboard controls are: Q-T for Thrust, (A-G
Select) Alternate keys from B-SPACE for
Left and Right, P to Start/Stop the game,
CAPS/SPACE to exit training mode.


0154	Kokotoni Wilf - Elite

The Great Magician Ulrich discovered that
there had once existed a legendary Dragon
Amulet which had been shattered and the
fragments scattered through time. Being
too ancient to recover the fragments
himself, Ulrich commanded his athletic
protege, Kokotoni Wilf, to undertake the
task. Ulrich provided him with a set of
wings to aid him. After all the segments
had been gathered from each time period,
Ulrich provided a glowing time-gate to
enable travel to the next Time Period.

Play using a Kempston Joystick interface,
Interface 2, any programmable joystick or
the keyboard. Control keys are: Z, M, or 5
for Left, X, SYMBOL SHIFT OR 8 for Right,
O or I to Fly and SPACE for Music On/Off.


0202	The Pyramid - Fantasy

The Pyramid contains 120 chambers on 15
levels. In order to get from one chamber to
another you must fight off the indigenous
aliens to collect an energised crystal which
will neutralize the force field guarding the
two exits. The Pyramid is inhabited by a
total of 60 weird and exotic alien types.
Apart from going for a high score the
Pyramid contains a number puzzle to solve,
the more chambers successfully visited,
the more information is gathered to enable
you to solve the puzzle of the Pyramid.

Joystick options are: Fuller, Kempston,
AGF/Protek or Mikrogen. Keyboard options
are displayed once the game has loaded.


0257	Horace Goes Ski-ing
	Melbourne House/Psion

Help Horace to slalom down the mountain
course between the flags and avoiding the
trees ? but first he must cross the busy
roads to get to the ski slopes. He starts the
game with $40. Ski hire is $10 and if he is
knocked down ambulance fees are $10. A
bonus of $10 is given for every 1000 pts.
The controls are: Q for Up, Z for Down, I for
Left, and P for Right. S pauses the game
and any key on the bottom row to restart. A
game can be aborted and a new game
started by pressing the G and H keys
together.



SIDE TWO

0000	Gilligan's Gold - Ocean

Place the bags of gold in your wheelbarrow
before the time runs out. Each bag
increases your time and score, but beware,
the outlaws are after you - and the gold.
You can escape by jumping on the trucks
(by hanging on the hooks) or via the
ladders and lifts, but watch out for the
deadly, deep mine-shafts. The outlaws can
be stunned by dropping the bags of gold on
them.

Joystick or keyboard control (see screen
instructions). Keys are: P for Up, ENTER
for Down, Q for Left, W for Right and Space
for Action.


0054	Ant Attack - Quicksilva

Battle the ants in the 3D walled city of
Antescher and rescue the girl (or boy).
0, P, ENTER and SPACE give the four view
angles. SYMBOL SHIFT to rotate clockwise,
M to rotate anti-clockwise, V to move
forwards, C to jump, S D F G to throw
grenades short to long distances, 1 is to be
used as a last resort, it returns you to the
city gate. To climb onto walls or buildings,
press 'move' and 'jump' together. The scan
indicates which direction to take in order
to reach the girl or boy.


0158	3D Tank Duel - Real-Time

The object of the game is to destroy all the
enemy tanks, but beware! The tank
commanders improve their tactics as you
destroy more of them. Shoot UFO's for
bonus points and either dodge or shoot the
missiles.

Joystick options are: Sinclair, Kempston or
cursor. Keyboard controls are: CAPS SHIFT
to B to move left track backwards, A to G to
move left track forwards, B to SPACE to
move right track backwards, H to Enter to
move right track forwards, Q to P for FIRE,
1 pauses the game, 2 resumes it, 1 and 4
prints the screen picture. To play a new
game press the P key or the joystick FIRE
button.


0237	Jack and the Beanstalk - Thor

As Jack you have to search for the castle's
riches, being careful not to wake the giant
sleeping in the parlour. For each task you
must collect the specific item and escape
deeper into the giant's castle, fighting off
creatures and being very careful where
you tread!

Joystick or keyboard options. The keys are:
Q for Jump, W for Left, E for Right, P for
Fire, O for Up and K for Down.


0327	Sorcery - Virgin

The evil Necromancer and his demonic
servants have conquered the Earth,
enslaving it's people. You are the last of the
great sorcerers and you must travel to
Stonehenge where your three fellow
sorcerers are held captive. The
Necromancer has sent his servants after
you, and time is running out. Can you save
them before they are turned to stone and
the Earth is plunged into eternal darkness?
On many of the screens you will find
objects which may or may not be of use to
you. One of the objects, when placed on
the altar at Stonehenge will destroy the
Necromancer. The wrong one will kill you.

Keyboard controls: Q for Left, A for Right
and 0 for Fly.




BAND-AID TRUST
c/o Stoy Hayward
8, Baker St.
LONDON W1.