SPLITTING IMAGES
(c) DOMARK 1986

Loading Instructions:

Load "" (enter)

After the basic loader and short file have loaded the border 
turns black, and it stays black during the rest of the 
loading.  A "timer" will appear at the bottom of the screen 
to show how much longer the program has to load.
One side of the tape has a demo program recorded before the 
main game.  This will show you how the game looks in action.

Controls:
Keyboard Controls:
O = left
P = right
Q = up
A = down
Cap/shift to space = fire

R+T = Abort Game
H = Hold (Pause)
J = Continue

Joystick Options:
2 Kempston
3 Cursor, Protek or AGF
4 Interface II

5 = starts the game

How to Play the Game
The idea is simple - just build up a splitting image of the 
character by arranging the squares in the right order.
The spinning cursor is controlled with the direction 
keys/joystick.  At the start of the game you'll find it in 
the top lefthand corner under the arrow.
You can make pieces of the picture or bonus items appear by 
pressing fire while the cursor is in the box.  You'll have 
noticed by now that the little screen on the righthand side 
is lighting up as you pass over each piece of the picture.  
This shows the correct position for the piece that the 
cursor is spinning over.  If you want to move a piece or 
item then put the spinning cursor on that particular piece
hold down fire and press down whichever direction you wish
to move it.  Notice you can only push a piece until it 
either hits the wall or another square, watch out for the 
black cracks in the border or you're in for a surprise.  
Have you noticed that there are several little doors opening
and closing automatically?  If they are closed, they act like
the normal wall of the playing area, however, if they are 
open then the moving piece will disappear through the hole.  
If it is a piece of the picture then this is put to the end 
of the "queue" of pieces waiting to be brought onto the 
playing area.  If it is a bonus item then it disappears 
forever. (tip: You'll find it helpful to get rid of the 
pieces that are not required by throwing then through the
little doors) When you have completed a level the computer
waits until the fire button is pressed before continuing
onto the next stage.  If you're in doubt try it out.

Items and Their Meaning

Bonus Score
Each level has several items associated with the person
whose picture you are trying to create.  If these are
pushed together they will give you the bonus points.  
However, if you push the wrong items together they will 
both be destroyed with no bonus points being given.

Clues
1. The Bomb: Explodes after 5 seconds. Destroy it by
pushing it away through one of the doors.
2. Water tap: Push it against a bomb to destroy it and
earn 5,000 bonus points.
3. Diamond: Push it against another diamond and your
time limit will be raised by a maximum of one minute.
4. Fuel: Don't throw it against a match it's explosive.
5. Match: Don't throw it against the fuel it's explosive.
6. Pistol: Throw it against a bullet and your bonus points
will be multiplied by two.
7. Bullet: Throw it against a pistol and your bonus points
will be multiplied by two.
8. Hammer/Ice Cream/Cup of coffee: Mystery items!

Remember if you throw the wrong item together they will 
disappear with no bonus being given.

Lives
You have three lives during the whole game, these are
shown by the black squares in the bottom righthand
corner.  However: After an explosion of an item or if
your time runs out (shown by the marker at the bottom of
the screen) your lives will be decreased by one.
If you reach a score of 100,000 you are awarded one extra
life.

Scoring
If you complete a level within the time limit you will be
awarded bonus points.
Otherwise bonus points will be awarded from throwing the
correct items together.
