INLAY TEXT FROM SWEEVO'S WORLD:

Designed and built as the answer to all man's needs SWEEVO was a miserable
flop - unco-ordinated, unintelligent and forgetful. But the kindly old
Robo-Master has taken pity on this crazy roboid and one more chance is all
he has, if you can call the challenge of Knutz Folly a fair chance.
The most bizarre planet in the empire, Knutz Folly is packed with the
absurd, crammed with the weird. Can our hero turn this folly of Baron Knutz
into SWEEVO'S WORLD?

SWEEVO'S WORLD
"...The funniest cartoon adventure you'll ever take part in..."

For an intelligent robot, Sweevo is not very bright - he's clumsy, accident-
prone and fond of fruit, but not bright. So that when he encounters the
Great Dictator, the Horrid Little Girl and the Goose that lays the Golden
Erg, his strange faith in apples is shaken to the core...
Confused? You will be, when you enter the outrageous bizarre and hilarious
SWEEVO'S WORLD.

LIFE OF SWEEVO
For a self-willed robot, purpose-built to ease Man's burdens, seek out
extreme environments and, generally, boldly go, SWEEVO was bit of a flop.
So far, during Robot-Android Training School (RATS), he had failed the
Memory Test (forgot to turn up), failed the Intelligence Test (forgot his
name) and has been disqualified from Coordination Classes when, while
trying to scratch his knee, he had accidentally turned himself off. All in
all, a complete disaster...

But the kindly old Robo-Master had decided to give poor SWEEVO a final
chance, mainly in hope of getting rid of him forever!

Each self-willed extreme environment vocational organism was allocated a
problem planet to clean up before it was allowed to enter Active service.
Such worlds abounded in the Grand Empire of Man (who tended to get pretty
messy, what with a Galaxy to run and all); Odoreta 5, for example, the home
for Old Training Shoes in the Sirian Sector, or Riglis, which for some reason
known only to the Space Angling Guild, was entirely populated by worms.

Lucky old SWEEVO was dropped onto an artificial planetoid shown on the star-
maps as Knutz Folly. Built by the mad baron Knutz, for his wife Hazel, an
almond-eyed beauty from Brazil, the folly was the most bizarre planet in the
Empire. Long deserted by humans, it was now populated by a host of genetic
experiments created by Knutz before he went completely screwy and finally
lost his thread...

Can our hero overcome the absurd dangers that face him and reach Active
Status? Is the kindly old Robo-Master due for a shock when SWEEVO returns
from his mission? Will Knutz Folly be renamed SWEEVO'S WORLD? Probably not...

THE POINT OF IT ALL
The results of the Baron's strange genetic experiments have completely
overrun the artificial planetoid and must in some manner be eliminated.
The main task would seem to be the experimentation of an organism originally
designed to look after the Folly and keep it clean - the Waste Injestion and
Janitor Units (known commonly as widgers) - they are not really dangerous
but are extremely irritating and deserve everything they get! On the other
hand the creatures built to guard the place are very dangerous and will
attack at every opportunity; luckily, due to a deprived childhood in the
breeding vats, they each have a special weakness which can be used to attract
them...

SWEEVO's energy level can be judged by the expression on the face of the
large dial; the Goose that lays the Golden Erg, however, will provide extra
energy if he is startled from behind!

The Selector Pulse shows the position to occupied if an object is picked up
or the object to go if it is dropped.

Scoring is very complex and largely irrelevant, but, remember that for
SWEEVO to reach full Active Status, all other organisms must be eliminated.

Oh, and Beware of the Fruit!

HOW TO PLAY
Keyboard Controls
QWERT Up Left           YUIOP Up Right
ASDFG Down Left         HJKL and ENTER Down Right
Bottom Row Pick Up, Drop, BOO

JOYSTICKS supported are Kempston, Interface 2 and Cursor types; in all cases,
the Fire Button takes on the function of the Pick Up, Drop and BOO.

To FREEZE the game:
press Symbol Shift and 0 on the Spectrum

SWEEVO'S WORLD is manufactured and marketed by Gargoyle Games Ltd., 74 King
St., Dudley, West Midlands.

SWEEVO'S WORLD (C) 1985 Carter Follis Software Associates.
All rights reserved world-wide.

HINTS: Beware of the fruit!
       SWEEVO can't jump... but tin cans can provide a welcome boost.
       Collect Brownies for Brownie points (of course).
       Mash Minxes with teddy bears.
       Avoid the Goose-Stepping Dictators! 

COMMENTS : "A novel and humourous approach to the Ultimate style of game."
RATING : 95% (CRASH 25#, February 1986)
