TARGET RENEGADE - THE HIT SQUAD

He's back - meaner, tougher and thirsting for revenge!

LOADING

Type LOAD"" (ENTER)

CONTROLS

The game may be controlled by joystick or keyboard

JOYSTICK - Kempston or Sinclair, port 1 or 2 with the fire button pressed
           (facing right)

N - JUMP KICK
NW - JUMP KICK LEFT
NE - JUMP KICK RIGHT
W - BACK KICK
E - PUNCH/GRAB HOLD OF OPPONENT
S - ATTACK FLOORED OPPONENT
FIRE - PUNCH/KNEE/USE WEAPON/PICK UP WEAPON

Please note these movements are reversed when you are facing left.

Without the fire button pressed.

N - UP
NW - UP LEFT
NE - UPRIGHT
W - LEFT
E - RIGHT
SW - DOWN LEFT
SE - DOWN RIGHT
S - DOWN

KEYBOARD - fully redefinable

Player 1      Player 2

LEFT - K      LEFT - 6
RIGHT - L     RIGHT - 7
UP - Q        UP - 9
DOWN - A      DOWN - 8
FIRE - SPACE  FIRE - 0

Press S to pause the game.

This game has a two player option. If this option is selected it meons you can
be aided by a companion in your attempts throughout the levels. Each section
you go through however will be consequently more difficult, but you will have
twice the manpower with which to defend your self. Learn to co-operate with
your partner rather than just trying to overcame opponents separately.


GAMEPLAY

This game tokes place in the seedy city of Scumville. You have five
environments to progress through each of which is harder than the lost. In each
scene you will encounter a different type of villain who will try and subdue
you in variety of lethal fashions and at the end of each level is a doorway
leading to the next scene. By a combination of punching, kicking and with Mr.
Big. Weapons can be obtained by subduing an opponent who is carrying a club or
simply by picking up an item from the ground


Scene 1 - Multi-storey car park.

Here you will meet a gang of motor cyclists who will attempt to either run you
over or strike you with their weapons. The mounted cyclists must first be
kicked off their bikes, but this will only render them unconscious for a very
short time. Beware too, of the members of the gang and their friends who will
creep up on you unawares in their attempt to smash you.


Scene 2 - Seedy Street at night.

You will be confronted by the "ladies of the night" who will try to beat you in
the most unladylike manner. Additionally, the lady's "boss" will be on hand to
make sure you are not victorious. Armed with a gun, and a limited number of
bullets, he will attempt to shoot you and you must take evasive action until
his ammunition has run out, then you can attack him man to man.


Scene 3 - The Park.

Here, a number of undesirable skin-heads will attempt to beat you to pulp. Pure
punching, kicking etc. is the only way you will be able to progress to the next
level. Using weapons that can be found an the ground you must fight your way
through to the final confrontation


Scene 4 - The Shopping Mall.

The Beasty Boys are in town and some of their most ardent fans have congregated
in the shopping mall, aware that your progress towards Mr. Big has almost
reached its conclusion. Together with their canine friends they will attempt in
a variety as ways to make sure this is your last level.


Scene 5 - The Bar.

Before you are allowed to confront Mr Big on his home ground, you must first
subdue his vicious bodyguards who will stop at nothing to ensure you do not
threaten their leader (Warning - when you do manage to overcome these thugs,
Mr. Big himself is a major force to be reckoned with)!
