THE NEW ZEALAND STORY
New Zealand is a peaceful place to live - if you're a KIWI, particularly in the
Auckland Zoo - Tiki is as happy as can be...
Trouble turns up in the guise of a psychotic walrus who has on enormous
appetite for fresh Kiwi and kidnaps Tiki and his relatives to stock the larder!
The walrus hides his captives around the island in 20 hazardous locations but
our hero escapes and sets about rescuing his buddies.

LOADING
Spectrum Cassette Insert cassette in your tape recorder and type LOAD"" then
press ENTER. Press play on the tape recorder. If using 128K machine then use
LOADER.

NOTE: 48K - This game will load in a number of parts, follow on-screen
instructions.
128K- This game will load four levels at a time; follow on-screen instructions.

CONTROLS
Usual joystick options for UP, DOWN, LEFT, RIGHT and FIRE. The keyboard controls
are redefinable and the default controls are:
UP - I   DOWN - K
LEFT - J   RIGHT - L    
FIRE-SPACE 
SYMBOL SHIFT + CAPS SHIFT to quit. The game is controlled by either Sinclair
joystick, Kempston joystick or keyboard. 

GAMEPLAY 
You control Tiki the Kiwi in his search for the release of his kidnapped
friends. Initially, you are armed with just a bow and arrow, but occasionally
when you kill an enemy, they may drop an item which you con retrieve and use
yourself. There ore many different types of item which you must discover
yourself, but they vary from extra weapons to temporary invulnerability pills.
Kiwis cannot fly and you are no exception, however, you get around this by
knocking/shooting creatures off their balloons, which you can then commandeer
and take to the skies!
Surprisingly, Kiwis cannot breathe under water either, so you must be careful if
you go swimming. Your oxygen level is shown on screen, so make sure you don't
drown!
Shooting water from your mouth replenishes oxygen and can be used to pot your
adversaries.
In the earlier levels, you will be shown arrows on the background which indicate
the direction you must go to release the captive Kiwi on that level, but beware,
on certain stages, releasing your friend alerts the Big Guardian Creature of
that level, and you must first find a way of defeating it before progressing to
the next level. 

Because the various lairs of the walrus are so well guarded, we cannot brief
you further. Your techniques will develop as you play the game and each new
level presents new, frantic and more original challenges!

* Note - make sure you do not waste time sightseeing as you have a limited
period to complete each level.


STATUS AND SCORING
On the bottom of the screen is the payers remaining lives, the score and an
O2 Oxygen meter, whic decreases while the player is in the water.

The game finishes when the player's lives are exhausted or when he clears
all the screens and reaches the end.

For each special item which is collected you will get 1,000 points. Fruits
range between 300 and 8,000 points. For each enemy which is killed the
score ranges between 100 and 500 points, and the big boss characters are
worth 10,000, 20,000, 30,000, 40,000 and 50,000 points.


HINTS AND TIPS
* When in water, oxygen can be replenished by raising Tiki's head above the
  water - then spit by pressing fire if you want to gain oxygen quickly.
* Steal balloons by jumping on them while the baddie is still on, pushing him
  off.
* After a lot of practice, playing skills can be improved considerably.
* Use the duck balloon when you need speed.

(c)1989 Ocean Software
Licenced from (c)Taito Corp. 1988
The Hit Squad,
RO. Box 350,
Manchester.
M60 2LX
