STAR WARS - EMPIRE STRIKES BACK
===============================

MAY THE FORCE BE WITH YOU

This game follows the non-stop action of the movie and is a direct 
conversion of the famous coin-op.

All games players and STAR WARS fans alike will enjoy this version 
of the world's best know space-age epic.

Brought to you by the team who produced the top-selling STAR WARS 
game, THE EMPIRE STRIKES BACK™ is the next stage of the unfolding 
drama. The player takes the role of Luke Skywalker, piloting 
a snow-speeder against the huge Imperial Walkers. Darth Vader 
controls his forces with deadly cunning, using his Probots to 
search and attack the Rebel Base.

The action continues as the player becomes Han Solo in the Millennium 
Falcon, looking for safety in the galaxy whilst being attacked by 
Tie-Fighters and dodging asteroid storms.


INTRODUCTION

This game is the official home computer version of the famous 
EMPIRE STRIKES BACK coin-op. It is an interactive action game 
for one player. 

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS 

Spectrum 48k
Cassette: Load " " and press Enter, then start tape. 

Spectrum 128k/+2
Casette: Use 'Tape Loader' option from startup menu. 

Spectrum +3
Cassette: Use 'Loader' option from startup menu, ensure disk 
          drive is empty, then start tape. 
Disk: Place disk in drive, and use 'Loader' option from 
      startup menu. 

Commodore 64/128
Cassette: Hold down SHIFT and press RUN STOP key, then start tape. 
Disk: Insert disk, type LOAD "*", 8,1 and press RETURN. 

Amstrad
Cassette: Hold down CTRL and press the small Enter key.
Disk: Insert disk, type ICPM and press Enter. (I is obtained 
       by holding down SHIFT and pressing @). 

Amiga/Atari ST
Disk: Reset machine and insert disk. 

BBC
Cassette: Type CHAIN " ", press Return, then start tape 
Disk: Insert Disk, hold down shift press the BREAK key.


THE GAME

You command Luke Skywalker's snowspeeder vehicle and Han Solo's 
Millenium Falcon spacecraft. Your main goal is to reach the 
safety of the huge asteroid. To do this, you must reach the 
Rebel base on Hoth and escape to the skies.

You must survive four levels of play to reach the huge asteroid. 
The first level of play will engage you in a battle on the surface 
of the Rebel hideout. Your goal, as Luke Skywalker on a snowspeeder 
is to stop the probots from sending pictures of the Rebels' power 
generator to Darth Vader. 

The second level of play continues with Luke Skywalker on his 
snowspeeder engaging in a spectacular battle against two types of 
imperial walkers. AT-ST walkers are small but very mobile. AT-AT 
walkers are huge and difficult to destroy with blasters. A limited 
number of tow cables can be fired at AT-AT legs. The walkers are 
advancing towards the Rebel power generator, so the race is on to 
reach the Rebel base.

The third level of play engages Han Solo in his Millenium Falcon 
amidst a turbulent asteroid field. Asteroids must be avoided to 
reach the safety of the huge asteroid.

In all levels of play you must avoid colliding with objects and 
enemy shots, or your number of deflector shields will decrease. 
Also, in all levels of play you can earn bonus points for 
exploding a certain number of targets. A JEDI letter will be 
awarded in addition to the bonus points. Once all the letters 
that spell out JEDI have been awarded, you will have attained 
true Jedi Force, which makes you invincible against all Dark 
Side forces for a limited amount of time.

Scoring				Scoring
Fireball	3		Tie Fighter	 100
Transmission	5		Wave Completion	 2500
Star Shot	7		Jedi Letter	 5000
Probot		25		Flying Bonus	 5000
AT-ST Walker	50		Jedi Bonus	 20000
AT-AT Walker	75


CONTROL

The Snowspeeder/Millenium Falcon and firing/release of the tow 
cable can be controlled using Joystick or Keyboard. With Atari 
and Amiga computers, the mouse can also be used. Choose your 
control option, and define the keys once the game has loaded - 
chosen keys and controls will be displayed on the title screen. 

CHOOSING THE LEVEL OF DIFFICULTY

At the start of each new game, you have the option to choose 
between starting at level 1, 2 or 3 with a different starting 
score of 0, 100000 or 250000 respectively. Beginners are 
recommended to start at level 1. To choose the starting level, 
simply point the cursor at the appropriate icon and then 
press fire.

Good luck, and once again, may the Force be with you! Always.


Copyright TM & © 1988, 1984 LUCASFILM LTD. & TENGEN. 
All Rights Reserved. DOMARK LTD Registered User.

The game is sold subject to the following conditions: all 
unauthorised copying, hiring, lending, exchanging, public 
performance and broadcasting is strictly prohibited.

Credits Motion Picture: Lucasfilm Ltd. Computer Game: Vektor 
Grafix, who are: Programming: Andy Craven, Ciaran Gultnieks, 
George Iwanow, Mark Robinson. Graphics: Derrick Austin. 
CERTAIN VERSIONS HAVE A SECRET FEATURE FOR YOU TO DISCOVER.
