[ See transcription notes at the end of the document.

Zenobi Software Adventures
The Golden Pyramid

Being a 'free-lance' reporter has it advantages and sat here supping a decent
cup of 'Earl Grey' is most certainly one of them ... not to mention the slab of
'Cherry Genoa' that had accompanied it.  All that remains of the latter are a
few crumbs on a white porcelain plate, whilst the matching cup in your left hand
is in urgent need of a re-fill.  Leaning forward you ring the small silver bell
and some moments later old Rigby shambles towards you clutching a tray
containing a silver tea-pot and a brown manilla envelope.

"This just arrived for you," he mumbles and you smile at the missing 'Sir' that
any of the others here present would have tagged on to the end of the statement.
But old Rigby had never really accepted you as a 'bona-fide' member of this club
and often made his feelings known concerning the matter.  However he was good at
his job and the simple fact that he produced such an excellent pot of tea more
than made up for his 'crustiness'.

Tearing open the envelope, you slide out the small sheet of paper contained
within and begin to read its contents as old Rigby turns on his heels and
shuffles away.

".... have located the site of the ancient GOLDEN PYRAMID ..... looks to be in
excellent condition .... natives a shade restless but should not cause you many
problems .... the rumours have it that it is untouched ..... will look forward
to your arrival ...."  Your eyes scan across the page and come to rest on the
signature on the bottom and a smile of recognition flits across your face.  You
have seen that scrawl many times before and it has always meant that you were on
the verge of yet another great adventure.  One day you would have to meet
Wee-Yin personally and express your gratitude for all his stalwart work in the
past.

Some hours later, fully equipped and ready for any eventuality, you climb into
the 'jump-seat' of a light aircraft and set off for the arid region of Africa
where the GOLDEN PYRAMID is to be found.

NOTES:

This game will accept all the standard commands such as EXAMINE, LOOK, GET,
INVENTORY etc.  It will also accept the use of RAM SAVE and RAM LOAD in order to
save and load a game 'position' to and from MEMORY.  However always use the more
normal commands of SAVE and LOAD to store your position on tape.  This will
ensure that your record will be a permanent one.  To quit the game at any time
simply type in QQ and follow the prompts on screen.  Abbreviations are ...
G = Get, R = Look, L = Look, X = Examine and I = Inventory.

Spectrum 48K/128K+2

[ Transcription Notes: This transcription attempts to adhere
[		       as strictly as possible to the original text.
[                      This means that punctuation and grammatical
[                      errors have not been corrected.  
[
[                      Matt Rudge
[                      Wickow, Ireland
[                      March, 2006
[
[ Errors and omissions to: mrudge AT gmail,com
