THREE WEEKS IN PARADISE

PUBLISHER
Mikrogen

AUTHOR
David Perry

YEAR
1986

DESCRIPTION
Another Wally Game, 3 Weeks in Paradise is an arcade adventure.

CONTROLS

INSTRUCTIONS
Another Wally Week game, following on from Automania, Pyjamarama,
Everyone's a Wally, and Herberts Dummy Run...

This time Wally's really done it...  Deciding to go on holiday,
he takes Wilma and Herbert to a deserted isle, as advertised by
Costa Del Cheapo holiday firm.  It seemed nice and cheap, and the
literature said that the natives were friendly, and in fact it
was such a nice place, nobody had ever bothered to come back...

Well.  Wilma kidnapped by the Chief Tribesman, hanging by her
feet, and Herbert the main course at a celebratory dinner. 
Wally's got his work cut out for him this time, and no mistake...

Do you need a handbag to crocodile rock?  That priest may be hot
stuff, but how do you get his attention?  Is it co-incidence that
corkscrew, coconut & cookie all begin with the same letter, and
yet blunt axe doesn't?  Are the bellows more than just a load of
hot air?  Am I giving the game away?  Yes.


CHEATS

THREE WEEKS IN PARADISE COMPLETE SOLUTION

To Rescue Wilma
First of all get the Mint from the sign outside the Trading Post
then get Wilma's Handbag from the beach, to get to the beach go
through the picture in the room that contains the table. As long
as you have the Handbag in your possession the crocodile will not
harm you. Go to the screen with the Ice Cube in it and press the
Action key.  Now pick up the Hole and go right until you are just
past the crocodile, now drop the Handbag. Take the Gold Fish Bowl
and the Hole to the Wishing well screen, stand at the far left
of the screen and press the Action key. Go left into the new
screen and take the Skeleton key, the spider will not move as
long as you have the Bowl.  Go through the picture again and into
the sea, pass over the locker and the door will open. Take the
Spinach and drop it in a convenient place. Go back to the room
with the picture in it and get the stuffing from underneath the
table,go to the room with the big bird in it. Take the Egg but 
don't drop the stuffing while you are in the same room as the big
bird.  With the Egg and the Spinach proceed to the room that
contains the sign 'Old Faithful', now pull the rope and run to
the water. Jump up the geyser. Jump into the nest and swap the
Spinach for the Bow and Arrows. Now drop down and drop the Egg.
Go to the screen that contains Wilma and shoot the native with
the Bow and Arrows.Proceed to the screen with the well in it and
jump down. Go to the centre of the well and press the Action key.
Take the bottle and climb out of the screen by going to the right
of the screen and keeping the Action key depressed. With the
Bottle and the Corkscrew return to the crocodile screen.Get the
Bottle and the Corkscrew past the crocodile one at a time by
using the Handbag. Standing over the Coconut with both of the
objects press the Action key. Take the Bottle of Oil and the
Blunt axe to the screen with the hut and the car. Pass over the
front wheel of the car and press the Action key.With the Sharp
axe return to the screen with Wilma and cut her down by pressing
the Action key.

To reseue Herbert
First of all get the Deux Sticks from the crocodile room using
the Action key, light the fire in the anvil room. Take the
bellows from the top of the well, then pass over the fire and
press the Action key. Get the Hot Ashes and take them to the room
with the Totem pole in it. Now pass over the white man and press
the Action key.Should you have the bellows the cloud will move
away from you, so make sure you are standing to the right of it.
When the cloud reaches the hut collect the Shell. Now take the
Shell down the well and press the Action just as the drip
touches. Once that has been done take the Billy Can to the
Geyser, pull the rope, and run to the water to fill the can.Go
and find the Flipflops and take them along with the full Billy
Can to the beach.  Just as you pass the crab press the Actionkey.
Now collect the Claw and take it to the right hand side of the
room that contains Herbert.  Whilst keeping the Action key
depressed walk into the lion. Take the Thorn, with this and full
Sea Shell walk to the middle of the cauldron and press the
Actionkey.

To escape
Just go back to the beach via the picture, in the room with the
table, and you will have finished the game with 100%.


SEQUELS/PREQUELS
Quite a few.  Automania, Everyone's a Wally, Pjamarama and
Herbert's Dummy Run.

INLAY CARD TEXT

SCORES RECEIVED
5/5 in SU
 
URL

GENERAL FACTS
3 Weeks in Paradise was written by David Perry, in 1986 by
Mikro_Gen, and has some interesting text buried right at the end
of the code, with mention of the 1986 Penthouse calendar, not
being paid for his work, and a greeting to Your Sinclair Hacker
Chris Wood.

NOTES
