TIMES OF LORE
Origin


After loading you will be asked to choose and save your character.
Please remember to have a blank tape ready to do this.
In future playing sessions you can either load the character creation
side of the tape, to choose a new character, or you may load the
game side of the tape straight away in the normal manner which
will skip the introductory title screens.


ALL AMSTRAD / SPECTRUM
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS

Times of Lore can be played either by having a joystick plugged in
or you can use the keys which are:

Q - up
O - left
P - right
A - down
0 - fire

Space bar activates the gauntlet, on Icon menu, for both sets of
controls.

When you stay at an Inn and save the game the computer will ask you to
insert a game tape. This needs to be a blank tape to save your
character and not the original Times of Lore game tape. When you load
a game from the control panel, this is also the tape you need to load.

Read the story carefully and follow the directions at the end to
choose your character in the game. If you choose the Knight, your
shining armour of polished steel plate will keep you strong and mighty
in battle. Or if the Valkyrie's life appeals to you, quickness and
agility will keep your foes dodging for their lives. Though the
Barbarian's loin cloth is not the most impenetrable of armour his
sheer brute strength will ensure that the protection of more
conventional apparel is never missed.


Playing Times of Lore

The top half of the game screen is the view window, and your character
is always shown in the center of this window. Movement to the north,
south, east and west is accomplished by simply moving the joystick in
the direction you wish to go.

When you press the space bar you'll see a glowing hand appear in the
lower screen window. Use the joystick to move the hand to point to any
of the command options. People will stop moving once you enter this
command mode (although monsters suffer no such restriction). You can
then move the hand to the symbol for the action you wish to perform
and press the joystick button to execute the command. Or you can press
the space bar again to abort your action and go back to the normal
movement mode.

Starting from the leftmost symbol, the commands represented by the
different icons are as follows:

TALK - Use the mouth icon to strike up a
conversation with another character in the game.
The person you wish to talk to must either be
right next to you or very close by; shouting in
public places is considered rude. See CONVERSATION
for more information.

EXAMINE - Occasionally you'll want to examine a
nearby object to identity it or perhaps take a
closer look at something you're carrying. The eye
works on special items such as scrolls, potions,
and one-of-a-kind artifacts and it also enables
you to search nearby for things not immediately
visible.

INVENTORY - The pouch displays a list of the items
you are carrying as well as how much money and
food you have.

DROP - You can only carry a limited number of
objects. If your pouch is full, you will need to
drop things that are no longer useful before you
can acquire new items and treasures.

TAKE - Use this command to pick up gold, food,
treasure, and other assorted items that may be
found after battles or encountered while exploring
cities and dungeons.

USE - This command allows you to drink a potion,
cast a spell from a scroll or otherwise make use
of something you're carrying.

OFFER - Attempt to hand an object to a nearby
person. If the person has no use for that
particular item, he or she will probably accept it
anyway as a token of good will.


GAME OPTIONS -
This command gives you the following options:

Symbol will differ for non-C64 versions.

SCORE allows you to see your current score, which
is increased by killing monsters and solving quests.

LOAD GAME allows you to restore the previously
saved game (see CONVERSATION for more information).

PAUSE GAME allows you to pause the game until the
joystick button is pressed.


Some commands in the game may ask you to choose which object or person
you wish to deal with. For instance, if you activate the DROP command,
a list of your DROPable items will appear, along with a cursor bar at
the top. Now you can either press the space bar to abort the command,
or use the joystick-controlled cursor to select an item to be dropped.


Conversation

Many of the inhabitants of Albareth's towns and cities can offer you
advice or assistance in your travels, and some may even send you on
great quests of valour and fortune. To speak with a villager press the
space bar and select the TALK symbol with the joystick and button. A
menu of conversation options will appear. Characters may initiate
conversation with you as well. When someone asks you a question, the
TALK command will be activated in anticipation of your reply.
	It is the established custom in the Kingdom of Albareth to greet
one's acquaintances with a cheery "Nice weather we're having!" or
perhaps, "I hope all is well with you." To hail a wayfarer in 
such a manner choose the START CHITCHAT option. Before long you will 
notice that such a casual greeting is likely to set the mood for the 
exchange of a word or two of friendly gossip, or even the imparting of 
vital knowledge.
	ASK QUESTION, the second choice on the menu, allows you to
pose a specific question to your acquaintance. After selecting this
option, the desired question must be chosen from a list of subjects
that your currently "know about" in the game. You can always ask
about RUMOURS, but the person you are talking to may or may not be
able to answer your query meaningfully. The list of other subjects you
may ask about is made up of important "key words" from prior
conversations. Whenever a person mentions a matter of obvious
weight a soft bell will sound and that subject will be added to
your characters list of "known" question topics.
	Some people. depending on the situation, may have additional
options in their conversation menus. Innkeepers, for example, have
much more to offer than the standard fare of pleasantries. If you have
the money to spend, they will give you a chance to replenish your
provisions or check into their hostel fora good night's rest. When you
ask for lodging at an inn, your character's current position and status
in the game is saved to disk. The next time you boot up the game, you
will begin play in that same inn with all your possessions and "key
words" intact. It is usually a good idea to check into an inn at the end
of a long journey or after you've accomplished a difficult or
dangerous task. During game play you may revert to your last saved
position by activating the GAME OPTIONS icon and selecting the
Load game option.
	You should make a habit of chatting with everyone you meet in the
cities and outposts of Albareth, king and knave alike. Subtle, but
important, events in the game can be triggered by talking with some
major figures, and vital key words may be lost by neglecting to save
the game before ending a session of play.
	All conversation and other game messages will appear in the message
window near the bottom of the screen. When the lower-right corner of
this window appears to fold up, this means there is more text for you
to read. Press the joystick button to continue reading.


Combat

To attack, move your character to face a nearby enemy and press the
joystick button. During the daylight hours in fortified towns and most
of the more civilized villages, you will rarely encounter any of the
wandering monsters that plague the countryside. Until you are certain
of an approaching person's intent, stay your arms. Besides, attempting
to take over cities by slaughtering the peasants is one sure way to be
ostracized from society. When you venture out into the world, though,
it's a different story. Creatures ranging from ordinary brigands to
supernatural specters will confront you, turning a simple journey from
one town to the next into a deadly challenge. Don't hesitate to
attack.


The following is a list of the characters you are likely to encounter
in Albareth:

Guard - The Guards in castles and larger cities
are brawny sorts, armed to the teeth. You'll have
no trouble with these mercenaries, as long as you
stay on their good side.

Peasant - Albareth's humble, cheerful peasants are
the lifeblood of the kingdom's towns and cities.
Talk to everyone you meet - the common folk
usually welcome the chance to share their folklore
and companionship.

Innkeeper - The inn-keepers of Albareth can be
very accommodating, especially when you're in need
of a stiff drink or a quick game-save.

Rogue - Archers of lethal skill, these cloaked
highwaymen are the nightmare of every tradesman
and caravan leader. Beware, for in these troubled
times many strong men have joined their ranks.

Orc - In the not-too-distant past, these unwashed,
pig-visaged barbarians were seldom encountered
outside their territories in the northern
mountains, but in recent times, the hated Orcs
have begun to invade Albareth's forests. They have
since become the nightmare of every traveller and
caravan scout.

Not in Spectrum & Amstrad versions.

Skeleton - The living Skeletons that haunt the
land, viciously hurling their daggers at
wayfarers, are said to be magically animated by
malevolent wizards to seek to spread disorder and
evil throughout the kingdom. Skeletons are
formidable opponents in battle, for they feel
neither pain nor mercy.

Ghost - Shades of evil men and monsters once slain
in battle, Ghosts can be the most difficult to
overcome of all dark creatures ... they have more
to prove!

Slime - No one knows the origin of this hideous
creature. Though unarmed, this creeping fungus can
still pose a deadly threat to careless
adventurers. A Slime creeps along dungeon walls
toward its enemies. secreting a corrosive fluid
that turns swords and daggers into tasty hors
d'oeuvres. Then it goes after its main course.

Cleric - The good Clerics of Albareth are renowned
for their devotion to the preservation and
sanctity of life, while the evil ones tend to
attack first and ask for donations later.

Not in Spectrum & Amstrad versions.


Survival

Be sure to keep an eye on the candle in the lower right part of your
screen. The candle will burn down as you grow weak from battle wounds
or lack of food. If the flame ever goes out, your character will die,
and you will have to start over from your last saved position.
Sleeping at an inn will restore your health. Standing still to rest in
a safe place will also restore your strength, although it will be long
in returning. Certain magical items can help as well.

Don't be afraid to experiment with the effects of various potions.


Treasure

Monsters sometimes carry assorted and sundry treasures, which they
will readily give to you as long as you kill them first. Gold, food,
magic potions, and scrolls may be found lying about in the bloody
aftermath of a battle. A peculiar property of magical treasures is
that only one scroll or potion of each kind can be carried at a time.
This means that if you're carrying a blue potion you won't run across
any more blue potions until after you drink the one you've got. Some
of these arcane items are very hard to come by so you should always
use discretion when employing their effects


Leaving Home

In your first glimpse of the rich and vast kingdom of Albareth, your
character is standing in an upper-story guest chamber of Eralan's
renowned frothing Slosh Tavern.
	For now, try taking the stairs down to the tavern's common room. Walk
over to the counter between the barkeep's ale kegs and the massive
stone fireplace. Is someone talking to you? Take the time to chat with
everyone in sight and be patient. Often, a person who has something
interesting to say may prefer not to share it all with you at once.
Even in the mornings the Frothing Slosh is a busy place, and who
knows? One of the motley crowd of customers might just have some
business for a young and enterprising adventurer such as yourself!
