Tribble Trouble (c) 1984 Software Projects Ltd 
----------------------------------------------
INTRODUCTION
Brian Skywalker is a tribble farmer on the planet Noom. When
on a mission to round up wild tribbles to increase his
stock, his Noomrover runs out of fuel and Brian is forced to
herd his captured tribble back to base on foot. Luckily,
tribbles are (fairly) obedient and if they are close to
Brian they will go in the direction he is facing. Brian
himself is pratically indestructible, but various
tribble-zapping hazards must be overcome before the pair can
return safely to base.

SHEET 1 Brian is stranded at the foot of Firebug mountains.
Firebugs eat tribbles. So dump the tribble in the top of the
Noom rover, dig for magic gems. Look for then when they
sparkle (press '0') to reveal rocks, kick the waterfall,
don't let the tribble down.

SHEET 2 Goofer Desert. Tribbles eat goofers but are killed
by cacti. Eat all goofers as they pop up; don't let tribble
hit cacti; watch out for Brian, he may get caught up on the
cactus spines.

SHEET 3 Spheroids Cave. Spheroids eat tribbles. You can
burst Spheroids with tin-tacks (press '0'): descend through
levels and escape.

SHEET 4 Snappers Lair. Tribbles eat spinning mushrooms but
Snappers eat tribbles. Can you get the tribble to eat all
the mushrooms while avoiding the Snappers.

SHEET 5 On returning to base, Brian finds that his whole
stock of tribbles has escaped. You must return all the
tribbles to their pen before the air supply runs out.

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

1.  Connect lead to ear socket of Spectrum from ear socket
    on recorder.
2.  Rewind tape to beginning.
3.  Set Volume Control to the required level.
4.  Type LOAD "" or LOAD "TRIBBLE".
5.  Press key marked enter on your Spectrum.
6.  Press play on your cassette recorder.
7.  Your program will now load.

If the program does not load first time, repeat instructions
but try a different volume setting. Loading time approx two
minutes.

TO MOVE USE KEYS

P = RIGHT
O = LEFT
Q = UP
Z - DOWN
0 - DIG/PLACE TACK

Also compatible with Kempston joystick interface.

Author: Jim Scarlett

Software Projects are always looking for new and original
games. If you have written one then why not send it to us
for free evaluation with no obligation by either party. We
pay good royalties or you have the option of an outright
payment, whichever suits you. Interested? Send a sample of
your game or 'phone.

Software Projects
Bear Brand Complex
Allerton Road
Woolton
Liverpool L25 7SF                              051-428 7990

------------------------------------------------------------

TRIBBLE TROUBLE (c) Copyright 1984 by Software Projects Ltd.
 Unauthorised copying, lending, hiring, public brodcasting,
 transmission or distribution is prohibited without express
       written permission of Software Projects Ld.

 TRIBBLE TROUBLE may not be hired or offered to sale on any
  optional buy back basis without prior written consent of
                    Software Projects Ld.

       All rights of the Author are reserved worldwide.

------------------------------------------------------------

Complete Instructions typed in by Paul Thompson, April 2003