TURMOIL
(Bug-Byte)


INSTRUCTIONS FOR TURMOIL

Author: David Turner

TURMOIL WILL RUN ON A 48K SPECTRUM

The game may be used with Sinclair or Kempston joystick interfaces.
To load TURMOIL simply enter LOAD"" - then hit the Enter key and
follow the computer's prompts.

THE GAME
The mad ruler of El Khazi, Sheikh Abdul Al Kohol, has hidden in the
labyrinthine chambers of his palace a fleet of fabulous motor cars.
You are Mick, the King's imported scouse mechanic, and because he's
only paying you in sheep's eyeballs (yuk!) you decide to steal the
King's cars - his pride and joy.
Firstly though, you must fill the cars with oil, because the sheikh is
too mean to top them up himself. There is plenty of it in El Khazi but
the wily old ruler has surrounded his fleet with his fanatical and
murderous personal bodyguard.
Without arousing any suspicion, you must pretend to be working by
moving your tools into the workshop, while all the time you are
surreptitiously pouring oil down the grid and into the cars.
The object of the game is to build a car by dropping oil through the
grid which is situated in the bottom left corner of the screen. To
collect oil, pick up the oil can (by moving up to it) and hold it 
under the dripping tank at the top right of the screen. Your can will
hold a few drops. Oil can be spilt from the jug anywhere by pressing
the "drop oil" control. If you are not over the grid an oil pool will
form and cause a fatal slip if you, or any Arab, try to cross it.
Tools will appear occasionally, on shelves. A high bonus is given for
returning these to the workshop in the bottom right (put down your jug
on a shelf before trying to pick up the tool), but you will find this
difficult to do since the untidy tools annoy the Arabs!
When you have dropped enough oil down the grid to complete a car, it
will drive off and leave you on the next screen. There are 26 screens
in all, with many different obstacles - rope swings, lifts, moving
platforms, disappearing walls, springboards, conveyor belts, etc. Some
may seem impossible to complete, but if you think carefully enough you
should find a route to the oil for each screen.

GAME CONTROLS

                     KEYBOARD  JOYSTICK
LEFT                 I         LEFT
RIGHT                P         RIGHT
UP                   Q         UP
DOWN                 Z         DOWN
DROP OIL             M         FIRE
MUSIC ON/OFF    -    ENTER
FREEZE GAME     -    H

To climb or descend stairs, two keys have to be pressed together to
get the required diagonal movement (eg. up and right).
To catch onto a swinging rope, stand on one of the flashing blue
squares and press the 'up' key to jump.
