========================
Dick Francis - Twice Shy
========================
Document created by rstuart@ukonline.co.uk on 24th Jan 00 for
World of Spectrum: http://www.void.demon.nl/spectrum.html

Program By The Ramjam Corporation

TWICE SHY - Adventure game and a day at the races!
--------------------------------------------------
Adventure
Enter the dangerous world of Dick Francis. As Jonathan Derry you are caught
up in a search for punter's gold - a lucrative betting system.

Racing game
This thrilling simulation can be played quite independently from the
adventure. Study the form, place your bets and watch the races to see if
you've won!

Design by Richard Kelly based on the paperback published by Pan Books.
Distributed by WHS Distributors, St Johns House, East Street, Leicester,
LE1 6NE.

Introduction
------------
In this adventure based on Dick Francis' thriller, you play the part of
Johnathan Derry, phisics teacher at East Middlesex Comprehensive. For reasons
which will become clear as you progress through the adventure, you become
the custodian of a set of cassette tapes. It is up to you to find out what
they do. However, there are some other characters whose concern for the
health of others, particularly Johnathan Derry, is far from paramount.
Perhaps they know what's on the tapes...

The Game
--------
The game is in two parts: part 1 is the adventure game, and is on side 1 of
the tape; the racing game is on side 2. The races can be loaded whenever you
find yourself at the racecourse while playing the adventure, and may
successfully aid you in completing the game. And of course, if you fancy a
day at the races and the odd flutter, you can load and play the racing game
as a stand alone simulation.


Using The Program
-----------------
Place the cassette in your recorder, the right side up for the side you wish
to play, and ensure that it is fully rewound. Follow the instructions below
for your computer. Remember to press ENTER or RETURN after each command you
type.

Spectrum 48/128
Type LOAD"" and press PLAY on the recorder.

Commodore 64/128
Press the RUN/STOP key whilst holding down the SHIFT key, then press PLAY on
the recorder. For Commodore 128s, switch on the C64 mode, or type GO 64
before loading.

Amstrad 464/664/6128
Type RUN"" then press PLAY on your recorder. For computers fitted with disk
drives, type |TAPE first (To get the |, hold down shift and press @).

While playing the adventure game, you may find it of use to play the racing
game in order to earn some money. To do so, you must be at the racecourse in
the adventure, then enter the command RACE and, following the instructions
on screen, load the side of the tape with the racing game, and press a key
when you're ready to start playing.
  However, note that you must complete a full day's racing - you can't just
watch one or two races. You may then return to the same point in the
adventure.
  At the end of a day's racing, select the option from the closing menu to
return to the adventure. Reload the adventure by turning the tape over,
rewinding it to the beginning, and pressing PLAY. You will be returned to the
position you were at when you loaded the race game, though you may be a bit
richer (or poorer!). Press a key when you're ready to play. (See the section
below on the racing game).

Playing the Adventure
---------------------
In this game you play Jonathan Derry. To control his actions, type short
English sentences, such as GO NORTH, or TAKE THE RIFLE. To sace typing,
movement commands like GO NORTH can be shortened to just one letter for the
direction you want to go: N, S, etc. You can enter several commands at once,
by separating them with a comma, or with THEN or AND. In addition, you can
communicate with other characters by typing their name, followed by a valid
instruction in inverted commas. The following examples are all valid
commands:

GO NORTH
N
GO NORTH AND SHUT THE DOOR
GO NORTH, EAST AND SOUTH THEN SHUT THE DOOR
SAY TO JANE "TELL ME ABOUT TED"
SARAH "GO NORTH AND SHUT THE DOOR"

The game has a wide vocabulary, but will always say if it does not understand
a command. The following words will prove useful:

REDESCRIBE (R)   Repeats the discription of the scene.
TAKE or GET      Pick something up.
DROP or PUT      Put something down.
ALL              Allows you to TAKE or DROP everything without having to
                 list all the objects.
INVENTORY        Tells you what you are carrying.
EXAMINE or LOOK  Gives further details of the object you examine.
QUIT             Stop the game.

Saving the game position
------------------------
Whilst playing the game, you may save your current position, so that you can
turn the computer off yet return later to the same stage in the game. You
may wish to save the game before attempting some particularly hazardous
command, which might otherwise set you right back to the beginning!
  To do this, place a spare cassette in your recorder, type SAVE as a normal
game command, press RECORD and PLAY as a normal game command, press RECORD
and PLAY on the cassette and press ENTER or RETURN. It will take a few
seconds to save the game position, and then the command prompt will reappear.
Stop the recorder.
  Commodore and Amstrad games may be saved on disk by typing SAVE DISK
followed by ENTER or RETURN. This will save the position, but it will
overwrite any previous game position saved, as only one position can be
saved to one disk. The SAVE TAPE command will require the use of a cassette.

Loading a saved game position
-----------------------------
To load a saved position correctly, you must be playing the same part of the
game that you were playing when you saved the position. Put the saved game
cassette in the recorder and rewind it. Type LOAD and press ENTER or
RETURN. Press the PLAY button on the recorder. When it has loaded, the
position you saved will reappear on the screen.
  If you have saved a game position to disk, it may be loaded by typing LOAD
DISK.

Some hints on playing
---------------------
Make a map of who and what is where, and of how to get from one place to
another.

Save your position frequently, in case of sudden disaster.

Until you are sure of how things work, either only one command at a time, so
that you can see the result of that command before deciding on the next one.
However, multiple command entry is useful to speed up your progress round a
part of the game that you know well.

Conversation or interaction with other characters relies on their attitude
to you at the time. If you are not in their good books, they will simply
ignore you. You can attempt to improve relationships by offering advice or
objects or simply by communicating with them.

The Racing Game
---------------
Whether the racing simulation is played independently or as part of the
adventure, the aim is to make some money. The more the better. If you are
better as a part of the adventure, all your winnings will be available to
you on your return to the adventure (up to a maximum ś250).
  You are at the race course for one day, where six events are to be run.
The events are of varying distance, run by horses of known form. In each
event, you are shown the four runners, together with the odds offered. The
current day's conditions are shown on the race card.
  You may place money on any of the horses running, up to the limit of the
cash that you have available (you could back all the horses in the race!).
When you have finished betting, press ENTER or RETURN to start the race.
Your earnings will be updated automatically at the end of each event.
  Of course, you may wish to study the horses' form in a little more detail,
in order to assess more accurately the horse most likely to win. You can do
this by pressing the 'F' key while the race card and betting selection is
shown. A separate screen will be presented, on which you may study the form
of any horse. Simply key in the horse's running number in order to see the
horse's sex, weight carried, preferred distance and preferred going, and,
on the next screen, how well it did in its last three races. Pressing ENTER
or RETURN will then return you to the race card. This can be represented any
number of times during the batter stage, and can also be used to study the
form of ant of the horses in the game, not just the runners, thus allowing
you to make comparative judgements.
  Like a real day at the races, if you run out of cash, you'll just have to
sit back and watch the rest of the day's racing.

At the end of the day, you may select:

1. starting again with a fresh pocketful of money
2. starting again with your current earnings
3. returning to the adventure game (if you came from there)

These options are presented to you on a separate screen together with your
day's progress report.

Players who have come in from the adventure game and successfully solved
some of Jonathan Derry's problems, may bring an item which is as useful as
the Philosopher's Stone...

Loading advice
--------------
The cassettes are treated thoroughly, and you shouldn't have any problem
loading the game. If you do have difficulties, the following may help:

* Load another game from cassette to check everything is connected properly.
* Vary the volume and tone settings on your recorder if you can (fairly loud
  and fairly 'high' should work best).
* Clean and demagnetise the recorder (following the manufacturer's
  instructions).
* If you can, try another recorder.

Twice Shy - The Computer Game first published in Great Britain 1986 by
Mosic Publishing Ltd, 187 Upper Street, London N1 1RQ
Program Copyright (c) The RamJam Corporation 1986
Based on the book 'Twice Shy' Copyright (c) Dick Francis 1981.
First published 1981 by Micheal Joseph Ltd.
Production Services by Cosprint Ltd
