URIDIUM

PUBLISHER
Hewson

AUTHOR
1986

CATEGORY
Arcade Licence

CONTROLS
Keyboard, Kempston, Cursor

 KEYS : Left    - Z                     }
        Right   - X                     } Joystick
        Up      - L                     } controls
        Down    - SYM/SHIFT             }
        Fire    - ENTER                 - Joystick fire

        Pause   - P     (fire to restart)
        Quit    - Q

INSTRUCTIONS
The solar system is under attack! Enemy Super-Dreadnoughts have
been placed in orbit around each of the planets. They are
draining mineral resources from the planetary cores for use in
their power units. Each Super-Dreadnought seeks out a different
metal for its metal convertor.

Your Manta class Space Fighter will be transported to each planet
in turn and it is your task to destroy each Dreadnought. First
you must attack the defensive screen of enemy fighters, then you
must neutralise the majority of surface defences before you land
on the Super-Dreadnought's master runway. It is then possible to
activate the Dreadnought's self-destruct mechanism.

Your Manta fighter is deployed on a low-level strafing run as you
start your assault on the aliens' defences. You must avoid the
meteor screens and communications aerials which tower above the
Dreadnought's surface.

The fighter defences deploy in waves. A bonus is awarded after
landing if all ships in a wave are destroyed. Attack surface
features to score bonus points but beware of the homing mines
which materialise over flashing generator ports!

When the LAND NOW message appears, move as soon as possible to
the right hand end of the Super-Dreadnought and fly flat over the
end of the master runway from left to right.

Your Manta Class Fighter

Joystick up/down sets the position above the Super-Dreadnought, joystick
left/right controls acceleration and deceleration. If your velocity falls too
low your fighter performs a half-loop followed by a half-roll so as to face in
the opposite direction. The manoeuvre also temporarily increases your height
above the surface and may be used to avoid incoming missiles and mines.
Your Manta performs a 90 degree roll if you press and hold fire whilst moving
the joystick up or down. This will enable you to manoeuvre through restricted
spaces.

Score Table

Small explodable surface feature                     10
Large explodable surface feature                     25
Enemy ship or runway                                100
Enemy fighter                                  100-1000
Wave annihilation bonus                    100 per wave
A bonus Manta is awarded every 10,000 points.

Game Options

Spectrum
1 - Keyboard 1 player
2 - Keyboard 2 players
3 - Joystick 1 player
4 - Joystick 2 players
During Play:
P - Pause game
FIRE - To restart
Q - To abandon game

Credits

Designed and programmed by Andrew Braybrook
Music written and programmed by Steve Turner
Spectrum Conversion by Dominic Robinson
Amstrad conversion by Neil Latarche
(c) Hewson Consultants Ltd 1986, 1987 (c) Graftgold 1986, 1987
The program and data are copyright and may not be reproduced in part of in
total by any means without the written permission of Hewson Consultatnts Ltd.
All rights reserved. No responsibility is accepted for any errors. Our policy
is one of constant improvement. Therefore, we reserve the right to modify any
product without notice.

Hewson Consultants Ltd
56B Milton Park
Milton, Abingdon, Oxon
OX14 4RX


SCORES RECEIVED
"A very worthy version of a fast-moving ahoot-em-up." 90% (CRASH
#35, December 1986)

GENERAL FACTS

NOTES
