============
Winter Games
============
Document created by rstuart@ukonline.co.uk on 28th Nov 99 for
World of Spectrum: http://www.void.demon.nl/spectrum.html

Taken from the US Gold compilation 'Solid Gold'.

Winter Games
------------
When released went straight to No. 1 and has since proved an all time classic.
"An entertaining and challenging sports simulation" Crash awarded a Crash
Smash. "Winter Games was expected to be brilliant and it has certainly come
close to perfection, all the thrills of Winter Games without broken limbs."
Amtix.

Loading Instructions
--------------------
Commodore 64 Cassette
Press SHIFT and RUN/STOP keys together. Press PLAY on the cassette recorder.

Commodore 64 Disk
Type LOAD "*",8,1 and press RETURN.

Commodore 128
Play in 64 mode.

Spectrum Cassette
Type LOAD "" and press ENTER. Press PLAY on your cassette recorder.

Spectrum +3
Turn on your computer. Insert selected side of disk into drive and press
ENTER. Follow screen prompts where required.

Amstrad Cassette
Press CTRL and SMALL ENTER and then press PLAY on your cassette recorder.

Amstrad Disk
Type "RUN" DISK and press ENTER. Game will load automatically.

Important:
Please read this instruction sheet carefully before commencing game play.

Winter Games
============
Moment Of Truth
---------------
You're an athlete at the 1988 Winter Games at Calgary, Alberta, Canada.
You're about to move across snow and ice with as much speed, strength,
endurance and grace as you can muster in the blustery cold.
This is the winter portion of the world's formost amateur sports competition.
You'll match your skills against the top athletes from a hundred countries.

Objectives
----------
WINTER GAMES challenges your competitive skills with a series of athletic
contents for one to eight players (one to four Spectrum and Amstrad version).
You can compete in seven challenging winter events -
Ski Jump, Bobsled, Figure Skating, Freestyle Skating, Hot Dog Aerials, Speed
Skating and Biathlon (cross-country skiing and rifle shooting).

Practice each event first to hone your skills. Then choose from the 18
countries you can represent in the competition, and go for the gold!

WINTER GAMES provides judges, keeps scores, and awards medals to the winners
- the Gold for first, the Silver for second, and the Bronze for third place.
If you break a "World Record", WINTER GAMES will save your name and display
it on a special World Record screen.

Get ready to give it your best - and remember the motto of the ancient Greek
athletes:
     Citius - Altius - Fortius
    "Faster - Higher - Stronger

Starting Play (C64 Version)
---------------------------
Opening Ceremony
A spectacular opening seremony welcomes you to WINTER GAMES. An athlete
bearing the flaming torch mounts the steps to light the sacred fire that
burns night and day throughout the WINTER GAMES. White doves are released
over the stadium, to symbolise peace on earth. Let the games begin!

How to Play
Once the opening ceremony concludes, a menu screen offers you a choice of six
options. To make a selection, use your joystick to move the cursor to your
choice, then press the FIRE BUTTON.

Option 1: Compete In All Events
Compete in all seven events: Ski Jump, Figure Skating, Hot Dog Aerials,
Freestyle Skating, Speed Skating, and Biathlon. The computer keeps a running
tally of medals awarded to each player.

* To enter your name type your name on the keyboard and press RETURN.

* To choose your country, use the joystick or the cursor keys to move to
  the flag of your choice, then press the FIRE BUTTON to select that country.
  (To listen to the country's anthem, type S.)

* Repeat name and country selection for each additional player (up to eight).
  When all players' names and countries are entered, press RETURN.

* A verification screen appears. If all names and countries are correct,
  select YES with the joystick and press the FIRE BUTTON, or type Y. To
  delete names and start again, select No or type N.

Option 2: Compete In One Event Only (Disk Only)
Similar to OPTION 1, but you only compete in the event you select.
* Use the joystick to choose the event, then press the FIRE BUTTON. (or type
  the key matching the event number)

Option 3: Practise One Event (Disk Only)
No scores are kept during practise rounds.
* Move the joystick to choose the event, then press the FIRE BUTTON. (Or type
  the key matching the event number).

Option 4: Number of Joysticks
For one player: plug your joystick into Port #2 and select 1.
For two players: plug both joysticks in and select 2.
* Select 1 or 2 by pressing the FIRE BUTTON (Or type 1 or 2).

Option 5: See World Records
Displays the highest score recorded in all events, with the name and country
of the player who achieved each world record.
* Press the FIRE BUTTON to return to the menu.

Option 6: Opening Ceremonies (Disk Only)
Repeat the opening ceremonies

Starting Play (Spectrum Version)
--------------------------------
A menu screen offers you a choice of options. To make a selection, use the
SPACE KEY to move the cursor to your choice, then press the ENTER button.

Option 1: Compete In All Events
The computer keeps a running tally of medals awarded to each player. To enter
your name, type your name on the keyboard and press ENTER. Repeat name
selection for each additional player (up to four). When all players' names
are entered, press ENTER.

Option 2: Compete In One Event
Similar to OPTION 1, but you only compete in the event you select. Use the
SPACE KEY to choose the event, then press ENTER.

Option 3: Practice One Event
No scores are kept during practice rounds.
Move the SPACE KEY to choose the event, then press ENTER.

Option 4: Joysticks
If a one player game is selected the player may use any joystick. If two or
more players wish to play then they cannot select the same joystick
interface. Each player must select a different interface. Any number of
players can select to use the keyboard.

Option 5: See World Records
Displays the highest scores recorded in all events, with the name of the
player who achieved each world record. Press the FIRE BUTTON to return to
the menu.

Starting Play (Amstrad Version)
-------------------------------
Opening Ceremonies (Disk version only)
A spectacular opening ceremony welcomes you to WINTER GAMES. An athlete
bearing the flaming torch mounts the steps to light the sacred fire that
burns night and day throughout the WINTER OLYMPICS. White doves are released
over the stadium, to symbolize peace on earth. Let the games begin! Press the
SPACE BAR to continue.

How to Play
Once the opening ceremony concludes, a menu screen offers you a choice of
six options. To make a selection, press the SPACE BAR to run down the menu
and then press ENTER or simply press the number on the keyboard corresponding
with your choice.

Option 1: Compete In All Events
Compete in all seven events (disk): Ski Jump, Bobsleigh, Figure Skating,
Hotdog, Free Skating, Speed Skating, and Biathlon. The computer keeps a
running tally of medals awarded to each player.
* To enter your name, type your name on the keyboard and press ENTER.
* Repeat entering names for each additional player (up to 4).

Option 2: Compete In One Event
Similar to OPTION 1, but you only compete in the event you select.
* To choose which event you wish to compete in, press the SPACE BAR until
  your event is highlighted and then press ENTER.

Option 3: Practice One Event
No scores are kept during practice rounds.
* To choose the event you wish to practice in, press SPACE BAR until your
  event is highlighted and then press ENTER.

Option 4: Select Number of Players (X)
To select a number of players, press the SPACE BAR to option 4 and press
ENTER. This will increment the number of players and displays it in brackets
at the far right of option four. If the number four is in the brackets and
this option is chosen, the number of players will go back to one.

Option 5: Change Game Controls
Select this option if you do not wish to play with the joystick. You will be
prompted to enter the keys you wish to use for LEFT, RIGHT, UP, DOWN and
FIRE.
If more than one player is competing in Winter Games you will be asked to
define a second set of keys. Players 1 and 3 will use the keys selected for
Player 1 and Players 2 and 4 will use the keys selected for Player 2.
Initially the controls are set for joystick, if you should select the
Keyboard Control and then decide to use a joystick simply select Option 5 and
push the joystick LEFT, RIGHT, etc. in response to the prompts.

Important:
If there is more than one competitor it is important to select different
controls for each player since problems will arise if the same controls are
used for the speed skating where players can competa against one another.

Option 6: See World Records
This displays the highest score recorded in all events, with the name of the
player who achieved each world record.

Option 7: See Opening Ceremonies (Disk Only)
Repeats the opening ceremonies.

The Games
---------
Figure Skating
--------------
Figure Skating (Short Program) is a one-minute, timed exercise of seven
compulsory movements: Camel Spin, Sit Spin, Double Axel Jump, Tripel Axel
Jump, Double Lutz Jump, Triple Lutz Jump, and Camel into Sit Spin. You can
perform the seven movements in any order you choose. It's the grace and form
of your skating that count!

* Press the FIRE BUTTON to start Figure Skating.
* To begin a movement, point the joystick in the direction of the movement
  you want to make and press the FIRE BUTTON.
* To COMPLETE a movement, center the joystick and press the FIRE BUTTON.
* To SKATE BACKWARD, center the joystick and press the FIRE BUTTON.
These are the key figure skating movements, in their relative joystick
positions:
Joystick Controls: Figure Skating and Free Skating

       DOUBLE       CAMEL       DOUBLE
    LUTZ JUMP        SPIN       AXEL JUMP
              \       |       /
                \     |     /
                  \   |   /
      SKATE         SKATE          SKATE
   BACKWARD -------BACKWARD------- FORWARDS
                    / | \
                  /   |   \
                /     |     \
         TRIPLE      SIT      TRIPLE
      LUTZ JUMP      SPIN     AXEL JUMP

Figure Skating Tips:
--------------------
AWKWARD: A movement will be judged as elegant or awkward depending on when
you press the FIRE BUTTON. If you're skating forwards and "trigger" a jump
when the skater's legs are in open stride, the jump will be perfect. If the
skater's legs are closed, the jump will be awkward. The opposite is true if
your skating backwards: trigger the jump when the skater's legs are closed
and the jump will be perfect. Practice makes perfect, so keep trying!
FORWARD SKATING performers can do a Double or Triple Axel Jump or turn around
and begin skating backwards. Remember: Be skating forwards when time runs
out - it you're skating backwards you'll fall down!
BACKWARD SKATING athletes can do a Double or Triple Lutz Jump, a Camel or Sit
Spin, or turn around and begin skating forward.
When you do SPINS, try to make six rotations. If you turn fewer than six
times, your exit will be awkward; more than six turns will make you so
dizzy that you'll fall down.
DON'T FALL DOWN!
You'll fall down if you try to move directly from a jump to a spin, a spin to
a jump, a jump to another jump, or a Sit Spin to a Camel Spin, Skate
backwards in between movements; skate forwards before you do an Axel Jump.
CAMEL INTO SIT SPIN: You can move directly from a Camel Spin to a Sit Spin -
a very elegant combination worth 1.2 points!
FIGURE SKATING SCORES
You begin with a score of 0.0. The best score is 6 points. All scores are
displayed in tenths. And don't worry - your score can't go below 0.
After you successfully complete each Figure Skating Movement, your score is
added like this:

  MOVEMENT           POINTS
  Camel Spin             .7
  Sit Spin               .7
  Double Axel Jump       .6
  Triple Axel Jump      1.1
  Double Lutz            .6
  Triple Lutz           1.1
  Camel into Sit Spin   1.2
  Total                 6.0

* Total Score Penalties
  .7 Point penalty for each fall.
  .2 Point penalty for each awkward movement.

Free Skating
------------
In Free Skating competition, you choose the jumps and spins, inventing your
own choreography to music. You have two minutes to complete the program.
In Free Skating, you try to make three successful attempts of the seven
Figure Skating movements: Camel Spin, Sit Spin, Double and Triple Axel,
Double and Triple Lutz and Camel into Sit Spin. The Judges will watch you
closely in this event and calculate your maximum score based upon the number
of falls and awkward movements in your routine. A smart performer will
complete three attempts of as many difficult movements as possible within the
two minute limit, to get the highest possible score. You begin with 0.0
points. The maximum score (ceiling) you can get is 6.0 - no matter how high
your total score.

Note: If you successfully compete a fourth attempt at a movement the Judges
      will not credit your score.

Free Skating Scores
MOVEMENT       POINTS EACH ATTEMPT
Camel Spin                      .3
Sit Spin                        .3
(1.8 points maximum)
Camel into Sit Spin             .5
(1.5 points maximum)
Double Lutz Jump                .2
Double Axel Jump                .2
(1.2 points maximum)
Triple Axel Jump                .4
Triple Lutz Jump                .4
(2.4 points maximum)
Total                          6.9
(6.0 Maximum Ceiling)
* Total and Maximum Score Penalties
PENALTY      TOTAL      MAXIMUM
Fall           -.5          -.2
Awkward        -.2         -.05
Note: No penalty for failing to attempt all seven movements.
EXAMPLE:
Your Total Score     6.9     Maximum:     6.0
  1 Fall             -.5                  -.2
  2 Awkwards         -.4                  -.1
                             Your Final
    Total            6.0     Score        5.7
CREDITS: Only the movements completed within the two minutes are scored.
Movement attempts will be added to your score only if they're successfully
completed.

Speed Skating
-------------
Speed Skaters can move at 30 miles per hour - much faster than athletic
track runners. In fact, Speed Skating champions are the fastest
self-propelled human beings over level earth!
In Speed Skating, two racers skate side-by-side, in separate lanes, as fast
as they can go!

* When PRESS YOUR BUTTON appears on either half of the screen, the player
  whose name appears on that half of the screen must press the joystick FIRE
  BUTTON. The next player does the same. This begins the countdown.

* When the count down reaches "GO" begin skating by moving the joystick to
  the LEFT and RIGHT to move your skater's legs. The trick is to make the
  skater's legs move back and fourth in rhythm as in real skating.

* Continue skating by moving the joystick back and fourth in rhythmic strokes
  to move your racer's legs. Build your natural skating rhythm faster to get
  up to speed - and GO FOR IT!

* The skater with the fastest time wins the race.

* When the race is over, press the FIRE BUTTON to begin the next event.

Hot Dog Aerials
---------------
This demonstration sport tests your guts, grace and precision on skis. Strive
for a performance of athletic artistry as you flip through the air in a
dazzling series of daredevil moves.
* Push the FIRE BUTTON to start a jump.
* Push the joystick in one of these six directions to begin a movement:

        Daffy                   Back Scratch
              \               /
                \           /
                  \       /
                    \   /
 Back Flip ---------Land--------- Forward Flip
                    /   \
                  /       \
                /           \
      Mule Kick               Swan

* To do one movement after another, move the joystick when the Hot Dog Skier
  is in mid-air - timing is crucial.
* To get out of a move or begin another move push the joystick to the centre
  (LAND) position.
* Hold each movement (except the Flips) until you choose a different move.
* Get into the landing position before you hit the ground, or you'll fall.

SCORES
The score is based on both style and difficulty, and is displayed after
you land. The maximum is 10 points.
DIFFICULTY is judged by the number of different manoeuvres performed in mid-
air. Any combination of movements can be mixed together for a total maximum
score of 10. Combinations of different movements count for the most points.
Points will be deducted for awkward movements. Watch your landing! If you
fall, you won't recieve a score.

  STUNTS              POINTS
  1 Stunt                6.3
  1 Flip                 7.2
  2 Stunts (Same)        8.7
  2 Flips (Same)         9.2
  2 Stunts (Different)   9.6
  1 Stunt and 1 Flip    10.0
  2 Flips (Different)   10.0

* 1.4 point penalty for each awkward movement.
CREDITS: Only the first attempt of each movement completed within the one
minute is scored.

Ski Jump
--------
Every gust of wind chills your body as you look down from the top of the jump
tower to the runaway far below. The judges and spectators look like insects
from this height. GO! Your coiled body lurches forward and suddenly you're
into another world!
You crouch down low, in a tuck position, to accumulate as much speed as
possible. At the take-off, you leap out, push out, and lean forward, over
the edge of your skis, to reduce wind resistance and increase the length of
your jump.
* Press the FIRE BUTTON to begin your approach.
* When you reach the take off point, press the FIRE BUTTON.
* In the air, watch the upper right-hand corner of the screen for faults.
  Correct faults quickly to get maximum style points and distance.
  * If your knees are BENT move the joystick UP to correct.
  * If you're TOO FAR FORWARD move joystick LEFT.
  * TOO FAR BACK move joystick RIGHT.
  * SKIS CROSSED move joystick DOWN.
* If you don't correct your faults in time, your Ski Jumper's wild antics
  will cause wind resistance and you will lose style points.
Ski Jump scores are based on distance and form:
DISTANCE: is based on the timing of the takeoff, and the aerodynamics of the
jumper in the air.
STYLE: You'll get more points if you recover quickly from faults and don't
fall.
SCORES
Your maximum is tallied by multiplying your DISTANCE 3(x)STYLE POINTS. A
respectable Ski Jump score would be a flight of 60 meters and 20 style points
for a total of 200 points.

Biathlon
--------
Race over a cross-country track on skies with a .22 calibre rifle slung over
your shoulder. You have only a few cartridges to fire at the required
targets, so steady your sights and develop an eagle eye before you fire away!
* Press the FIRE BUTTON to start cross-country skiing.
* Move your joystick LEFT and RIGHT to move your skier's legs in steady,
  rhythmic kicks and glides.
* On LEVEL GROUND, keep up a steady pace by moving your joystick back and
  fourth.
* For UPHILL terrain, move the joystick faster to increase speed.
* DOWNHILL stretches go fastest if you use the double-pole technique. Pull
  the joystick down when the skier's hands are in front, to get the maximum
  push down the slope.
* SHOOTING: You are issued five cartridges to shoot at five targets, and
  every miss is a 5-second penalty. The gun must be loaded and the shell
  ejected after each shot. Pull the joystick BACK to open the gun chamber.
  Push the joystick FORWARD to load the shell. Push the FIRE BUTTON to shoot.
  Repeat for the next shot. The skier's heart rate affects accuracy - so cool
  down, and take careful aim before you fire!
* The winner or high score is the skier with the fastest total time.

Bobsled
-------
Prepare to career down a track of solid ice - while you crouch in a
precision-built machine of steel and aluminium. You'll fly around
hair-raising turns, then plummet down the bumpy straightways at speeds
exceeding 90 miles per hour!
* Press the FIRE BUTTON to begin the race.
* Move the joystick left and right to guide your sled.

HINTS: Steer hard! To avoid capsizing at the turns, try to anticipate the
pull of centrifugal force, and steer hard in the opposite direction.
Watch your speed! The power bar at the bottom of the screen shows how fast
you're going. The faster you go, the harder you have to steer to keep
plummetting toward the finish.
Learn the course! An intimate knowledge of the course is important, so you
must learn the best position to take at each corner.
* The winning bobsled's score is based upon the fastest time through the
tracks.

Scoring
-------
Awards Ceremony
---------------
After every event, the names, countries and scores of all competitors are
listed in the order they placed. The name of the Gold Medal winner appears
at the top of the screen, and his or her country's national anthem is played.

Champion Ceremony
-----------------
If players compete in all WINTER GAMES events, a Grad Champion of the games
is selected based on the number of points awarded.
Gold Medal    - 5 points
Silver Medal  - 3 points
Bronze Medal  - 1 point

The points are totalled after all events have been completed, and the player
with the most points is honoured as the Grand Champion. The ceremony takes
place aftter the Awards Ceremony for the final event.

World Records
-------------
If a world record is achieved in any event, the name of the record-breaking
player is saved by the WINTER GAMES program. The records are displayed on
the World Records screen. If a new record is set for an event, the previous
record is erased and the new information appears in its place.

How Did Winter Sports Begin?
----------------------------
Skiing, skating and sledding began centuries ago as fun and practical ways
for people to move across snow and ice.

Skiing
------
The earliest skis may have existed about 4,000 or 5,000 years ago in
Scandanavia. Ski bindings were invented in the 1860's by Sondre Nordheim, of
Mordegal, Norway.
Once skiers could slip the toes of their boots into iron pieces, then fasten
their heels with straps or springs, they gained much more control of their
long wooden slats - and they could move with breathtaking speed. Norwegian
emigrants pioneered the sport all over the world.

Skating
-------
Skating began about 1000 B.C. Before the Iron Age, Nordic people make skates
from elk, ox and reindeer bones. In fact, anthropologists have discovered
bone skates they believe to be at least 20 centuries old!
Since the Middle Ages, people have skated on canals in Holland. Ice skating
was a very fashionable recreation in the French court in the 1770's, when
Marie Antoinette was an avid enthusiast.

Sledding
--------
Primative sleds were used for transportation before 3,000 B.C. in Northern
Europe. The American Indians tied poles together with thongs to carry loads
over snow.
The thrill of riding a speeding sled down a steep hill caught on in the
1500's in Germany, when people rode toboggans over showy hillsides. Sledding
became a real sport when a British and American tourest started racing sled
down snowbound mountain roads in the European Alps, in the middle of the 19th
Century. Bobsled raced developed into the 1880's in Switzerland.

(c) 1984 Epyx Inc.

This compilation (c) 1987. Manufactured in the U.K. under liscence by
U.S. Gold Limited, Units 2/3 Holford Way, Holford, Birmingham B6 7AX.
Copyright subsists on these titles. All rights of the producer reserved.
