SIDE 1

Wriggler
Written by Devonshire House
© 1985 Romantic Robot

SIDE 2

THE MOONS OF JUPITER
Written & performed by A. Goldscheider
Produced by Romantic Robot
© 1984 Red Bus Music Ltd.

To load and play THE WRIGGLER, connect the EAR socket of the Spectrum to the EAR
socket of your tape recorder. The MIC socket should be left disconnected.
Position the tape with the A side upwards and ensure it is rewound to the
beginning. Press LOAD followed by "" (SYMBOL SHIFT and p) and ENTER. PLAY the
tape and the game will load and start automatically. If not, try adjusting the
volume and tone controls of your tape recorder and/or consult the Spectrum
manual.

THE WRIGGLER is suitable for both the ZX Spectrum + and 48K Spectrum.

The B side contains a bonus from ROMANTIC ROBOT - THE MOONS OF JUPITER, original
music to wriggle to THE WRIGGLER. Produced by ROMANTIC ROBOT, it was written
synthesized and computerised by Alexander Goldscheider. Unlike the program A
side, the music B side is stereo recorded.

THE MOONS OF JUPITER is published by the Red Bus Music (International) Ltd. All
rights reserved.

	If interested in some of our other products,
	ask your local dealer or write direct to:
			ROMANTIC ROBOT
			77 Dyne Road
			London NW6 7DR

WRIGGLER is a game set on an extensive map of over 250 locations, of which the
six pictured show only an example. There are many routes you may take, but to
successfully complete the game you must expect to go through four basic areas:

1) THE GARDEN - a complex maze out of which you will probably not find your way
until you have played the game several times...

2) THE SCRUBLAND - where you can relax a little and try to bring your energy
back to scratch...

3) THE UNDERGROUND - miles of stretching labyrinths containing among else moving
floors and rising heads which you must carefully balance on to cross crevasses
or climb walls. One slip and you may end up in HELL...

4) THE MANSION with THE LIFT SHAFT - an intricate web of corridors around a
seemingly bottomless shaft. You will need not only the lift but also the right
key to the right doors - and one may lead to the planet surface...

As your play progresses you will encounter new and varied creatures, learn about
the value and importance of different objects and their influence on your energy
and score. Your way to the finish will never be the same as each game is set up
differently. But there is a way and perhaps you may be the first in the thirty
years of the Maggot Marathon to find it.

	If YOU feel Your program could be a hit, perhaps
	WE could help to make it one. Why not contact us,
	in the strictest confidence, for evaluation and
	possible marketing of your product. Write to:
			ROMANTIC ROBOT
			77 Dyne Road
			London NW6 7DR

"THREE... TWO... ONE... GO!". And with a single shot from the starter's gun the
four regional champions of the Annual Maggot Marathon bite their lips and
quickly set off on the most dangerous and highlighted event of the insect world
sporting calendar.

As you set your pace for the race ahead your mind begins to drift when you think
about the fame, glory and honour for the first contestant who completes the race
in over thirty years.

You are suddenly brought out of your dream when you realize you are being
trampled on by an ant. You jump out of its way, thankful it did not follow you
as others may do. But now in your weakened state you need food. Ah, you see
some, but how do you get to it? And here is a key and an ant spray but which
will you take?

Watch out for that spider! One touch from him and you are dead! Look - a
parachute. You may need it later... But you cannot get to it as you slip off the
moving floor and with your life energy drained plunge to your death with only
the thought of what might have been...

RIP
