NINETEEN PART 1 - BOOT CAMP


LOADING INSTRCUTIONS:

 SPECTRUM 48: Rewind tape to start of side A (labelled side), type LOAD "", and press ENTER. Then press play
 on tape recorder.
 
 SPECTRUM 128/+2: Rewind tape to start of side A (labelled side) select tape loader option, and press ENTER.
 Then press play on tape recorder.

 ** Spectrum users please note: Follow on-screen prompts carefully. When told to "stop the tape" do not press
 rewind or fast forward.

 COMMODORE 64 Disk: Insert disk labelled side up. Type LOAD"*",8,1 then press RETURN.

 COMMODORE 64 Cassette: Rewind tape to start of side A (labelled side) hold down SHIFT, then press RUN/STOP.
 Press play on tape recorder.


DRAFTING

 You will be asked how many recruits players are required - up to four recruits can train at any one time.
 Press SPACE to select the correct number, press ENTER/RETURN when selected.

 Press "Y" or "N" to the prompt "Are you sure?". "N" will allow you to re-select the required number of recruits,
 "Y" will continue with the drafting.

 The recruits will now be prompted to enter their names. When a name has been typed in press ENTER/RETURN. At
 this point the recruit will be given his draft number.


Spectrum Users
 
 Select game control by pressing SPACE, then press ENTER when selected:
 Kempston interface
 Sinclair Joystick port 1
 Keyboard - Q A O P Bottom row
 T - Toggle music on/off
 BREAK - Pause on/off. While game is paused you may press "R" to abort. This will allow you to restart the game 
 at the beginning by reloading the drafting selection.

Commodore Users

 Connect joystick to port 2
 RUN/STOP - Pause
 F7 - Abort. This will allow you to restart the game from the drafting section.


CO-ORDINATION, STAMINA, MORALE:

 As you progress through your training you will continually assessed on these qualities. Your accuaracy of 
 jumping obstacles, shooting targets, driving and unarmed combat will determine your co-ordination. Your stamina
 is calculated by how long you endure each training event and your morale is based upon your overall performance.
 The co-ordination and stamina ratings will also affect your morale rating.

 When all recruits have either failed or successfully completed a training event the obtained ratings will be
 displayed. These ratings will have taken into account your performance in the training event you have just
 taken part in, plus any previous events so far completed.

 Ratings are as follows:
 
 1. Abysmal.  2. Pathetic.  3. Lousy.  4. Poor.  5. Average.  6. OK.  7. Fairly good.  8. Good.  9. Excellent.
 10. Exceptional.

 When all four training events have been completed the recuits will have the chance to save their ratings to 
 tape/disk. These can be loaded into "19" Part 2 - Combat Zone so that the player can start the game with the
 advantage of having trained in Part 1.


ASSUALT COURSE

 This training event consists of 8 assault courses to be completed within decreasing time limits.

 Use left and right controls to run. To jump, climb or dive use the fire control to bring the indicator into
 the third section of the power bar situated at the bottom of the screen. To attempt an obstacle first make
 sure the indicator is in the correct position and second that you are correctly positioned in front of the
 obstacle. At this point release the fire control - if you have timed the manoeuvre correctly you will success-
 fully clear the obstacle.

 Brick wall             Release fire to climb.
 Vaulting horse         Release fire to vault.
 Stepping posts         Release fire to run up posts.
 Monkey bars            Release fire to jump up to the bars, left and right controls to swing. Don't hang 
                        onto a bar too long or your arms will tire, and don't swing too fast or you will lose
                        your grip.
 Hurdles                Release fire to step over.
 Tree jump              Release fire to climb ladder, release fire to jump gap.
 Nudge bar              Release fire to climb ladder, right control to shuffle. Don't stand still too long or
                        you will lose your balance and don't shuffle too fast or you will slip.
 Concrete pipe          Release fire to dive into pipe, left and right controls to crawl.
 Rocks                  Release fire to jump.
 Ditch                  Release fire to jump.

 Clearing an obstacle:

 First attempt - 3000 points                       Third attempt - 1000 points
 Second attempt - 2000 points                      Four attempts or more - No points

 If you compete a course within the given time limit you will be awarded a time bonus.


SHOOTING RANGE

 This training event consists of 8 shooting ranges to be qualified by achieving the target score. On each range
 you have 2 1/2 minuts to beat or equal the qualifying score, this score increases for each progressive range.

 The points awarded for legitimate targets (soldiers) range from 100 to 500 depending on the area of the target
 hit. The nearer to the centre of the target the higher the score you will be awarded. Hitting a woman, child
 or baby will decrease your score by 1000 points.


JEEP TRAINING

 This training event consists of 8 tracks to be completed within decreasing time limits. The faster you drive the
 proportionally higher your score will increase.
 
 Helmet, Boot, Ammo Box, Dog Tags, Jerry Can, Star: Collect these for bonus points.

 Haybales, Cones, Tyres, Fences: These obstacle will increase the damage to your jeep and temporarily decrease 
 your speed. Driving off the sides of the track will also cut down your speed.

 Rocks, Logs, Tree-stumps, Oil Drums: These obstacles will inflict increased amounts of damage to your jeep and 
 bring you to a temporary standstill.

 As the amount of damage increases, you available top speed will decrease. Full damage will render you jeep 
 undrivable.

 Controls: Up - Accelerate.  Down - Brake.  Left/right - Turn.


UNARMED COMBAT

 This training event consists of 8 bouts in which you have to survive the skill of the instructor. In each 
 progressive bout the time limit is increased.

 To win a bout your energy level need to equal, or be more than the instructor's energy level when the time 
 limit runs out. Bonus points will be awarded if you manage to knock the instructor down. If your energy is
 less than the instructor's when the time limit runs out, or if you get knocked down, you will lose the bout.

 Jab - 200 points        Hook - 600 points            Knee - 1000 points            Kick - 400 points
 Headbutt - 800 points

 Controls:

        Without fire                         With fire                     Fire only

           Kick                                 Knee                          Jab

     Walk         Walk                   Turn         Hook

           Duck                               Headbutt


Watch out for 19 Part 2 - Combat Zone. This time it's for real!
