ARNHEM
R.T.Smith, CCS, 1985


This document is based on translation of an article from ex-YU magazine 
"Svet Kompjutera" (World of Computers) -Jan/'87, done by me, and an 
Russian web page done by web-translator which gave many 'funny' results 
such as "And.In. Stalin" for I.V.Stalin :) I've done my best to correct 
it, don't be mad on me if you find some errors - Aleksandar Lukic in 
December, AD2002. 

The solid information stuffing, characteristic for Smith's  
"Encyclopedia of War" is present in "Arnhem" too. Detailed scenario 
of the game, the account of the lay of land, the limited time 
favourably distinguish "Arnhem" from other games of this genre and 
give to it special realism. 

Game is based on air-landing operation which has been carried out by 
allies at the end of September 1944 under funny(?) code name "Market 
Garden". 

After successful approach, allies arrived on border between Germany 
and Netherlands. Further advance was stopped for two reasons. 

First, there was a crisis with supply of armies. Very fast rates of 
promotion of armies have exhausted resources (basically fuel), 
communications were stretched (from the western coast up to borders of 
Germany approx. 500 kilometers) and if to take into account, that at 
the order of allies one working seaport Sherburg (others yet were not 
in time to win) was and supply was carried out only by motor transport 
(the railway network was destroyed by allied aircraft during operation 
"Overlord") it becomes clear why allied command has entered strictly 
normalized distribution of fuel and an ammunition between field armies.

Second, in boundary areas of Germany in 1935-1939 was build "Line of 
Zigfrid" stretched from borders of Switzerland up to borders of 
Netherlands. That "Line" (the Western shaft) was system of long-term 
strengthenings into which entered about 16 thousand military 
constructions (long-term machine-gun and artillery constructions 
(PILLBOXES), underground shelters for armies, antiaircraft - artillery 
warehouses, antitank and antiinfantry obstacles). 

In 1944 it was equiped additionaly with field constructions and 
amplified with minno-explosive obstacles. And though its armies were 
not numerous, are prepared insufficiently and had no reserves, allied 
command not so would like to storm it with empty fuel tanks of tanks 
and insufficient amount of ammunition. In these conditions the English 
command (field marshal Montgomery) had idea of the following strategic 
operation: to break through defense of the opponent on the Netherlands 
border, to release Netherlands, and then to develop approach from 
Netherlands in a direction of Ruhr (the main military-industrial area 
of Germany) and Berlin and by that, probably, to finish war. A part of 
this operation (the Dutch operation of 1944) was Arnhem's air-landing 
operation "Market Garden". Its plan provided landing in rear of the 
opponent on distance of 60-90 kilometers from a front line for 
assistance to approach of 2-nd English army. 

The task of a landing - capture of bridges through the rivers Maass, 
Vaal and the bottom Rhein. A place of landing - a narrow corridor 
between cities of Eindhovens and Arnhem. On the seized corridor the 
English armies should promote for Arnhem. The basic purpose - capture 
of the bridge in area of Arnhem, and an exit for allies for Rhein. In 
operation were involved: 1-st Polish air-landing brigade, 82-nd and 
101-st American, 1st English. The task to connect isolated jumping-off 
places was assigned on British tank division and parts of 30-th army. 
Because of shortage of air-vehicles landing should be carried out in 
two stages. September, 17th the first echelon, and tommorow - the 
second. In total in operation it was landed about 35.000 person and 
568 instruments. 

During operation allies managed to grasp bridges through Maas and Vaal 
and to keep them. Bridge at Arnhem was 'too far' for allies. 

The First echelon has promoted to area of the bridge, but was stopped 
by strong counterattacks of infantry and tanks of the opponent, and 
the second echelon has landed under fire of the opponent in the area 
seized by parts of the German tank case and has had the big losses. 
Even landing of 1-st Polish parachute brigade on September, 21st on a 
southern coast of Rhein could not improve its position. During 8 days 
of heavy defensive fights, in night of September, 26th the rests of 
1-st echelon (about 2500 person) were forwarded through Rhein and have 
incorporated with parts of 2-nd army. Losses by 1-st echelon have made 
up to 7600 person (of them 600 person captured, including the 
commander of a division). 

Thus, as a result of operation allies have left to Rhein, had in the 
big losses and not having reached ultimate goal of operation. Absence 
at allies of the authentic data on presence of armies of the opponent 
in area of landing of troops, loss of suddenness and slow promotion of 
a land forces, and also dispersion of forces of a landing have 
resulted in the first serious failure on the second front. 

Actions of German command did not differ an ingenuity, basically it 
threw all armies available in area on liquidation of a landing, and 
there were: a part of 1-st parachute army, 2-nd tank corpus SS, 9-th 
and 10-th tank divisions SS, 180-th, 85-th, 84-th divisions. 


MANAGEMENT
========== 
After loading the following menu will appear: 

1. To begin game. 
2. To load the postponed game from a tape. 
3. To save game on a tape;

After a choice of [1], you set no. of players (in a case of "game in 
four hands" the second player will operate German armies) and choice 
colour or B-W TV. The submenu of game will appear: 

1. Approach to Eindhoven 
2. Operation "Garden" 
3. Operation "Market" 
4. Capture of the bridge 
5. Operation " Market Garden "

First four items are components of the fifth and serve as practice for 
full game. Those who is self-assured can begin with the fifth item - 
full operation. 

GOALS in SCENARIOS:

   1. Approach to Eindhoven - 7 turns only, Allies must clear the 
central road. If not, Germans win. 

   2. Operation "Garden" - 10 turns follows approach of British tank 
corps to Grave, same goal as in 1st scenario. 

   3. Operation "Market" - 26 turns!! To win Allies have to clear road 
behind (!) Arnhem's bridge. German commander wins if block road before 
or at Nijmegen's bridge. If both conditions are missed, it's draw. 

   4. Capture of the bridge - 15 turns, Allies have to clear road to 
and after Arnhem's bridge otherwise winner is determined by number of 
survived units placed right(N) from Arnhem. 

   5. Operation "Market Garden" - cover whole battle, 26 turns. Same 
goals as in 3rd scenario. In 1 player mode, expect 5 hours 'action', 
in 2 pl.mode 8-10 hours to complete battle. 

Screen is splitted in 3 parts, the map of battlefield is up-left. On 
the up-right you'll see the current date, time of day and phase of 
battle. Border colour shows which forces are in action: yellow-British 
blue-American and black-German. In the bottom of the screen there is a 
line with the name of the division marked by blinking cursor. 

3 turns are grouped in 1 day (morning, afternoon and night). After 
every turn you can go to the main menu and save to tape. Every turn is 
consisted of 3 phases: in 1st mechanical units moves, in 2nd non-mech. 
and in 3rd mechanical units moves again. Symbols of units are neutral, 
unless in contact with enemy or before move after contact. 

Giving Orders: 
--------------
Units one by one, starts to blink, that's the moment when they can 
receive orders. With "R" player gets report about blinking units (its 
force, efficiency, a degree of skill and a moral condition, and also 
the name of battalion/ brigade). "Enter" is for transition to the next 
unit. 'Real' orders are: 
   "C" - serves for curtailing in a marching column (usefull on hard 
terrain) or on the contrary for expansion in the fighting order; 
   "D" - dig in, fastening its position (decrease loss with no effect 
on offensive strength- GOOD!); 
   "T" - travel on roads. Speed of movement there is three times 
faster, than movement on field. After its pressing choose the cursor's 
place on road "where the division should arrive", and press Enter. 
Curtailing and expansion (contact with enemy or when arrive on 
destination) will occur automatically; 
   cursor's keys (5,6,7,8 and Enter) - usual moving of cursor; 
   "B" only artillery divisions has it! Player set cursor over unit or 
terrain where want to bombard and fix it by 'Enter'. This increase 
attack effects from other player's units. Different units - different 
ranges... ;-) 
   "O" - cancel previous order; 

If "Unit already has orders", with 'Enter' it continues to follow 
orders, while with "S" previous orders are confirmed for all units 
with uncompleted orders. 

Only TWO units can be placed on SAME 'place' (one over another). If an 
unit encounter occupied place, its movement is STOPPED! If it's 
occupied with enemy, battle starts. If win, it continues its orders, 
if lose- it retreats and can't move one turn. 

Unit can attack only once in one turn (see "Raport"). Attack is 
automatical on all units in contact. Forces under attack blinks yellow-
red. If 2 different units defend same place and is attacked by 2 also 
different, opponents are splitted- infantry goes on infantry, tanks on 
tanks etc. 

When game ends, you'll be 'rewarded' with an historical phrase or be 
criticized also you'll get data on quantity of the divisions which 
were taking part in operation, amount of the divisions crushed, and 
carried heavy loss from both sides. 

TIPS 

- Armies move in strict conformity with a lay of land, Landing 
divisions overcome all obstacles of a relief. "Light" divisions (for 
example, 231 infantry brigade) overcome roughnesses of a relief both 
the small rivers and channels. "Heavy" divisions (2-nd battalion of 
the Irish guards) overcome  some roughnesses of a relief, and all 
water barrier overcome only on bridges. 

- When moving armies on roads, don't give an order to armies to 
follow towards each other (otherwise you will have jam on road). 

- At landing of troops watch that the landed division did not come 
into contact to divisions of the opponent, differently your commandoes 
can disappear simply !!! 

- Construction of game supposes a presence on one place no more than 
two divisions. That gives to game special opportunities, but sometimes 
limits your actions. 

- The course of game can be miscellaneous, depending on your actions. 
The success of operation develops on an exact choice of places for 
landing and resistance of your landing divisions, and also speed of 
approach of a land forces. 

- To land a landing it is better on roads, and then quickly to move 
in the necessary direction. 

- Take the most of artillery. ("Artillery - the god of war" I.V. 
Stalin). At approach attack by the tanks maintained by artillery, is 
practically unstoppable. At defense of landing parts don't be kept 
without support of artillery. 

- "Heavy" divisions are better for using on open equal sites (to the 
north of Eindhoven etc.). 

- On flank roads, in order to prevent unpleasant unexpectedness, it 
is better to leave barriers. 

- If your landing, let say, in area of Arnhem reduces in the river or 
be destroyed, study rules of speeding up of water barrier... 

- Rules of speeding (force?) up of water barrier: 
   a) In the first echelon landing parts are put forward. 
   b) Behind the first echelon settles down maximal quantity of 
artillery divisions. 
   c) "Heavy" parts are established on road, and to them is given an 
order to follow on road to any point on the other coast. 
   d) After powerful atack with heavy landing divisions go to attack 
in area of the bridge through the river and from its both sides!! 
   e) After a gain of small jumping-off place in case you have not 
executed the third point, quickly fill in its (jumping-off place) with 
"heavy" parts. 

- Meaning of items in report ("R"): 
STR= shows how many dammage unit can stand (brigades= 2xbattalions); 
EFF= shows remaining force (after movement) for attack, every turn it 
     returns to 100%; 
MOR= unit will retreat if MOR+EFF <100% ; 
ATT= shows 'quality', ATT*STR= potential dammage to enemy. 

- If you will not manage to carry out successfully operation, choose 
a 'problematic' level and traine it. 
