BATMAN - OCEAN SOFTWARE LTD

[ These obviously incomplete instructions taken from the Hit Squad
  re-release ]

Step (c) Press all keys required for control (they will be printed on
the current line as they are pressed). If you want to use the ENTER
key then press it first. N.B. If you accidentally press the wrong key
at this point go on to Step (d) and then back to (b). [This involves
pressing ENTER twice].

Step (d) When all keys are selected press ENTER.

Step (e) If you want to change more controls then start again at Step
(a), otherwise press SHIFT and return to Main Menu.

CONTROL SENSITIVITY MENU

This enables skill in control to be built up - the main difference
being the way diagonal control is interpreted. The default value is on
Low Sensitivity and is recommended for beginners.

The default controls have been defined as follows:

LEFT    O       6       Joystick - Left
RIGHT   P       7       Joystick - Right
DOWN    A       8       Joystick - Down
UP      Q       9       Joystick - UP
FIRE    SPACE, SYMBOL SHIFT, M, N, B, 0, Joystick - Fire
CARRY   SPACE, CAPS SHIFT, Z, X, C, V
PAUSE   1       1

NOTE

  (i) The Joystick controls use the port selected on the Joystick Menu.
 (ii) The Sinclair Interface II Right Joystick is pre-defined above.
(iii) *Important* Space is defined as JUMP and CARRY, this allows both
      actions with a single key depression and is essential for expert
      control.
 (iv) Abort feature is available by pressing PAUSE. Screen message will
      then appear.

BAT EQUIPMENT

These 4 items must be collected before Batman can begin his task. They
are indicated at the bottom right of the playing screen and will
automatically be highlighted when collected.

BATBOOTS - These will allow Batman to jump.
BATBAG - This enables Batman to pick up and carry items around a
         location - Press Carry again to drop them. (Note: items may
         not be moved from the location they start in).
BAT-THRUSTER - This lets Batman have horizontal control when falling,
               but has no effect on the speed of his descent.
BATBELT - This is a low gravity device which halves the speed of
          descent.

EXTRA POWERS

Batman is able to collect extra powers on his journey. These powers
are not everlasting but will help Batman do battle with the henchmen.
There are four extra powers and a fifth neutralizing power which
Batman must try and avoid:

EXTRA LIFE - This increases the number of lives.
ENERGY - Collecting one of these enables Batman to travel at greatly
         increased speed for a short time.
SHIELDS - These make Batman invulnerable for a short time.
JUMP - These enable Batman to jump twice the normal height.
NEUTRALIZER - These should be avoided. Collecting one of these will
              cancel all Batman's extra powers.

BAT-SIGNALS

Distributed at several locations are Bat-Signals. Touch one and it
will vanish - as it does, it will store the state of play (number of
lives left, Batcraft parts collected etc). This allows one to restart
the game at this point (see MAIN MENU - PLAY THE GAME) should you lose
all your lives - this feature is nested so each time a Bat-Signal is
located the state of play is stored for future use.

BATMAN

Its program code and graphic representation are the copyright of Ocean
Software Limited and may not be reproduced, stored, hired or broadcast
in any form whatsoever without the written permission of Ocean
Software Limited. All rights reserved worldwide.

(c) 1986 Ocean Software Limited.

BATMAN, and all characters, slogans, logos, and related indicia are
trademarks of DC Comics Inc.

(c) 1986 DC Comics Inc. All Rights Reserved.

The Hit Squad,
P.O. Box 350
Manchester M60 2LX

[ Advert for World Series Baseball - Sports Collection 4 ]
