Beach Head (c) 1984 US Gold Ltd 
-------------------------------

1. USING THE MENU

The menu screen displays four status boxes: one for the present
number of players; one for the sill level; one displaying
whether keyboard or joystick is selected; and finally, the
largest box which displays the current keyboard selection for
movement, fire, ect. Further to this list is a list of keys to
press which perform various functions:

"S" to start;
"I" to go to the instructions pages;
"P" to change the number of players
    (this is a toggle putting 1 to 2 or 2 to 1);
"L" to change skill level 
    (this loops through "easy" and "hard");
"K" to define the game keys - you are asked to press your key
    selects with the option to reselect should make an error;
"J" to make a joystick selection
    (keep pressing to loop through selections);

If the machine is loaded and left unattended the game will go
into self-demonstration.

When you press "S" to start the game you are asked to input
your name, which can be up to eight character. This input
routine has an erase facility using the normal Spectrum
"Delete" keys. When you are finished inputing your name press
"Enter" to start the game itself. From now on the program will
refer to each player by name - a unique feature of this game.


2. THE MAP SCREEN

Guide your fleet around the aerial reconnaissance screen by
using left, right, up and down. The hidden Passage is shown by
the flashing square in the top left. Kuhn-Lin base is shown by
the flashing square in the bottom left and the enemy fleet by
the four dots in square formation.


3. THE HIDDEN PASSAGE

Use left and right to rotate direction. To accelerate use up
and to decelerate use down. There are five speeds from Full
Ahead to Engines Stop. Avoid all rocks, torpedoes and mines.
When a ship has passed through safely it is displayed in blue
on the status lines.

Skill level control the speed of the torpedoes - Skill level
"easy" is slow, skill level "hard" is fast.


4. GENERAL QUARTERS - FIGHTERS AT 12 O'CLOCK

Planes will take off from either end of the aircraft carrier
and will come towards you. When they are close enough they will
launch bombs at you then swoop off. Use left and right to move
your gun turrets left and right. Use up and down to alter the
elevation of your gun up and down. Press fire to release a
burst of anti-aircraft fire.

For each hit you recieve the damage rating will increase by
one. When damage rating reaches a certain level you will lose a
ship - the figure at which this occurs id dependant on the
skill level.

Ten planes must be shot down to proceed to the next phase if
you have gone through the hidden passage or thirty planes if
you attacked the fleet head on.


5. BATTLE STATIONS

Move and fire as instructed in GENERAL QUARTERS. Use the Degree
of Elevation to estimate the distance (a 1 degree change in
elevation represents 200 metres distance).

Enemy ships are more accurate if you have attacked the fleet
head-on. For each hit taken you lose a ship.


6. BEACH HEAD

Use up and down to move up and down. Avoid all the obstacles.
Completion of this phase promotes you to the Final Battle.


7. FINAL BATTLE

Move turret and fire as in BATTLE STATIONS. Shoot each white
target one after another. Once all ten targets are shot the big
gun will explode and the enemy will surrender.


SCORING

Even if you destroy the fortress. Beach-head allows you to
compete for high scores. Game scoring is as follows:

    Ships navigated safely
    through passage             3,000/ea
    Airplanes                     400/ea
    Reconnaissance Plane        2,000/ea
    Carrier                    10,000
    Other Ships                 2,000/ea 
    Enemy Tank                  1,000/ea
    Machine Gun                   400/ea
    Bunkers                       800/ea
    Towers                        600/ea
    Targets                     2,000/ea
    Kuhn-Lin Destroyed         20,000
    Extra Ships (over 4)        2,000/ea


WINNING STRATEGY TIPS

1.  Learn to navigate the secret passage. It is difficult to
    get your ships through initially, but if you take the time
    to learn to get your ships through it, you score will be
    higher in the overall game.

2.  When the enemy fighters are approaching aim for the body of
    the airplane and do not use rapid fire until you zero in on
    the plane.

3.  In the  artillery sequence, make small changes in elevation
    by gently tapping the joystick.

4.  When your tanks start down the beach, the enemy defence
    installations will usually lie in the only clear path to
    the fortress. You must anticipate where they will be to get
    a clear shot at them. When enemy tanks attack you they will
    try to stay in front of you. In order for your shell to hit
    them, you must stay in their line of fire until your shell
    is about to hit their tank before moving out of the way.

5.  Attacking the Fortress - If there are only a few targets
    left on Kuhn-Lin and you have a number of tanks left, you
    can increase your point total by using all your tanks
    before destroying the fortress. Be careful, because each
    time a tank succeeds in reaching the fortress the following
    tanks have a much more difficult time.

---------------------------------------------------------------

                            U.S. GOLD
                      All American Software


                    Manufactured in the U.K.
                      Under Licence from
                Access Software by U.S.Gold Ltd.
                 Programmed for the Spectrum by
                        OCEAN Software.


                    U.S. Gold Ltd., Unit 10
                 The Parkway Industrial Centre
               Heneage Street, Birmingham, B7 4LY

---------------------------------------------------------------
Complete Instructions typed in by Paul Thompson, April 2003



















