Daley Thompson's Decathlon
--------------------------

Simulating all ten events in the most gruelling event in the history of the
Olympiad you will find the superb full-colour graphics and animation
breathtaking enertainment. Ten staggering events for the price of one
and great fun for all the family.


Daley Thompson's Decathlon simulates all 10 events in this gruelling test
of skill and stamina. The game runs on the 48K Sinclair Spectrum and is
controlled by the keyboard or a number of joystick options.


Playing:

The most gruelling even in the history of Olympiad - all ten events are
reproduced and each builds up the points necessary to gain the winners medal.

1st Day - 100 meters, Long jump, Shot-put, High jump and 400 meters.
2nd Day - 100 meters Hurdles, Discus, Pole-vault, Javelin and finally the
energy sapping 1500 meters.


Controls/Strategy Tips:

Most running events and the Javelin require continuous left to right joystick
movement or continuous left and right alternative key depression to increase
speed. For Hurdles press fire button to jump.

The Long jump and the three thowing events:- Try to achieve a launch of as
near to 45 degrees and as close to the take-off line as possible.

The High jump:- On take-off get as close to 90 degrees as you can and then
press the fire button to manoeuvre over the bar.

The Pole vault:- Press the fire button to position the pole and release
button to let go.

1500 meters:- Operate the running controls to accelerate and the fire
button to decelerate - remember to conserve energy for the end of the race.

Discus:- Press the button to start man running. Press fire button to release
the discus.

GO FOR GOLD! GOOD LUCK!


Status and Scoring:

On-screen scoring shows the number of attempts, points scored, world records,
qualifying times and distances. (You begin with three lives which are lost
through failing to qualify). A table showing the day, type of event and
remaining lives is displayed between each disipline.

Daley Thompson's Decathlon written by Ocean Software's in-house team is
only one of many superb games from Ocean Software.

Ocean Software Limited, Ocean House, Manchester.

PRODUCED BY D. C. WARD

(C) 1984 Ocean Software Limited.

(Transcribed by Robin Stuart)
