DEATH STAR INTERCEPTOR WITH 'OFFICIALLY LICENSED' STAR WARS THEME - SYSTEM 3

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

Connect the ear socket on your Spectrum to the ear socket on your recorder.
Place the cassette tape in the recorder, and rewind to the beginning. Type -
LOAD "" Press-ENTER

Press PLAY on the cassette recorder. Death Star Interceptor will now load
automatically. If loading is unsuccessful, adjust the volume control on the
tape recorder and try again.

CONTROLLING YOUR SF1 

Bank Left = Move joystick left (Key 0)

Bank Right = Move joystick right (Key P) 

Climb = Pull joystick back (Keys A,S,D,F,G,H) 

Dive = Push joystick forward (Keys Q,W,E,R,T,Y)

Fire = Press 'fire' button 

PLAYING

Launch Site: To launch your SF1 into deep space. Pull joystick 'back' - your
spectrum computer will scream - 'Prepare to launch', your jet engines will
fire, and you will 'take-off' automatically Aim for the dot in the middle of
the square of the'stargate'. A successful launch, will put you in deep space
scoring you 500 points.

Deep Space: You are now in space, flying towards the 'Death Star'. Empire craft
will now attempt to destroy you. So rather than shoot everything in sight - fly
to survive, and shoot what gets in your way. REMEMBER - PULL JOYSTICK 'BACK' TO
CLIMB AND 'FORWARD' TO DIVE.

The 'Trench: Now in the 'Death Star', your mission is to put a direct 'hit'
into the 'Exhaust Port' to send the Death Star nova. Various hazards will try
to stop you, and only good strategy will let you survive long enough to put a
lazer shot into the 'Exhaust Port'. Being in the right place and shooting the
right hazards is the only way to win.

Lazer Barriers: These restrict you flying down the 'trench', sometimes you are
able to fly under them, but most of the time your fighter will be locked into a
left and right mode only. A direct hit on the base will destroy them - Worth
100 points.

Gun Turrets: Shoot them before they shoot you-! Worth 100 points.
 
Empire Ships: They vary from Imperial fighters to cruisers Worth 200-300
points.

Fuel Dumps: They are harmless, but don't crash in to them. If destroyed worth
100 points.

Lazer Tanks: These can be tricky so shoot on initiative. Worth 200 points.

Air Vents: Found on the side of the trench. They are harmless but worth 100
bonus points for a direct 'hit'.

Exhaust Port: A direct hit will send the Death Star nova. Worth 1,000 bonus
points and an extra life. If you miss the exhaust port, you will have to go
back and start again.

Things To Know Shields: Your ship is protected by 5 shields, lose all 5 and the
next hit will be fatal - losing you a life. You start with 4 lives! Good Luck!

PLEASE NOTE This program uses every possible memory location, so do not connect
microdrive or interface when wanting to play the program, otherwise the program
will not run.
