Delta Wing

The Aim of the Game

The war in the air is reaching a peak. Never before have your skills as an ace
fighter pilot been so crucial to the battle.

To take off, taxi until your airspeed is above 83 Knots (full flaps) or 87 knots
(no flaps). At that point if you pull back the joystick the plane will begin to
climb. Look at the map to find out where the enemy bases are located. Also
included in the map screen is the status report showing damage and the amount of
ammunition used. The objective is to destroy the enemy bases and protect your
own from the enemy aircraft.

The map symbols have the following meanings:
 
If the position of the two planes is the same at any time then the symbols will
be overlayed and will appear red. It should be noted that at the start of the
mission there is an enemy aircraft within radar range, which will overlay your
symbol on the map screen.

Plane damage is indicated by the amount of plane on the left of the screen that
is coloured red. When the plane is completely red you are destroyed.

The number of bombs and bullets are shown on the right.

When you have located the enemy bases and have decided which one to attack, fly
in that direction. Watch out for enemy planes attacking your bases because if
they are all destroyed you will not be able to land and refuel etc.

When an enemy aircraft is in range you can try to shoot it down using your 20mm
cannon. The border will flash yellow when you hit the enemy and red when you are
hit.

It takes seven direct hits for a plane to be shot down.

When you are over an enemy base press ENTER to drop a bomb. Aim carefully with
your bombs because you have only one bomb for each enemy base.

When you are damaged, running low on fuel or out of ammunition you can land
close to one of your own bases to be repaired, refueled and re-armed.

LANDING

To land successfully you must have a vertical speed (VS) of less than 15ft/sec.
If your speed is between 15 and 60ft/sec your plane will bounce, if it is
greater than 60ft/sec your plane will be destroyed.

Your speed should be less than 200 knots and ideally around 100 knots, so flaps
should be down to prevent stalling. The angle of attack should be less than 22%,
which is equivalent to 2 notches on the Artificial Horizon, below the central
line. The plane should not be banked and the undercarriage must be down.

To be refueled, repaired and re-armed you must land within a ｽ mile of the base
and be stationary (no thrust). If you have not landed close enough to your base
you can taxi up to it.

CONTROL PANEL
 
a - Altitude in feet
b - Brake Indicator (above VS). Can be used on the ground and in the air.
c - VSI (Vertical Speed Indicator). This shows the rate at which you are
    climbing or diving in ft/sec.
d - Thrust (left of fuel gauge).
e - Fuel Gauge.
f - Airspeed In knots.
g - Stall Warning (right of fuel gauge).
h - Vertical Position Indicator. This is, in effect, a radar in the vertical
    plane, the range of which corresponds to the range of radar currently
    selected. Each blip on the radar has an equivalent one on the VPI. The
    centre line of this instrument's display represents your current altitude,
    so anything above the line is flying higher than you.
i - Radar. The central dot represents your plane and the other dots represent
    enemy planes or bases within range. The radar (and VPI) can be operated in
    short or long range mode, which correspond to 4 and 16 miles respectively.
    Pressing R changes the mode. Anything appearing above the central dot is
    ahead of you, anything below is behind you.
j - Artificial horizon, this consists of two parts;
    (i) A bar showing the current pitch angle.
    (ii) The roll angle is shown to the right.
k - Compass. This shows the current bearing of your plane and is used for
    navigating to enemy bases etc. North on the map screen is directly up.
l - Flaps. This shows how much flap you are using from zero to full flaps. Its
    function is to help avoid stalling at low speeds, which is essential when
    landing.
m - Bomb indicator is green when you can bomb, red when you have just dropped a
    bomb or when you do not have any left.
n - Undercarriage indicator is green when undercarriage is down and red when it
    is up. Do not travel at more than 320 knots with the undercarriage down.

CONTROLS
Keys:   Joystick:
I       - Left   Sinclair
P       - Right  Kempston
Q       - Up     Fuller
Z       - Down   AGF/Protek
U       - Undercarriage up or down
M       - Map
ENTER   - Drop bomb
B       - Air brakes
T       - Increase throttle
G       - Decrease throttle
F       - Flaps up
V       - Flaps down
R       - Change radar range
S       - Music on/off

Two player option Side 2
To use this option, both players will require:
Spectrum Interface 1.
A tape recorder, connected to only one of the Spectrums.
Two televisions, placed so that a player can only see his own screen.
Load the program as follows:
1) Ensure the units are properly connected and that all the units are turned on.
2) On the Spectrum without the tape recorder type:- LOAD*"n";1 (then press
   ENTER).
3) On the spectrum with the tape recorder type:- LOAD"" (press ENTER).
