                     The Dragontorc of Avalon
                     for the ZX Spectrum 48K
                           INTRODUCTION

Welcome to the World of Adventure Movies. If you are familiar
with the Spectrum then load the game, pass the security system
and start playing. You will probably soon master the keyboard/
joystick controls but if you have difficulty please refer to the
relevant section of the Detailed Instructions.

DRAGONTORC is inhabited by a cascade of people and creatures
for you to meet and match - Werewolves in Wolfwood, Wraiths
in the Cursed Crypt, Dwarfs on Dreamdown and Bats in
Hellsmouth Caverns. It will probably take you several hours of
play before you meet them all. Good luck!

Hints to Get You Started

You start off in Wispwood with the spells MOVE, SERVANT and
BANE at your command. To select a spell use Up or Down to wind
the scroll. When the arrow indicates the spell you need, press Fire
once to select it and a second time to activate it.

Notice that it is Maroc's astral projection which moves away - his
body is left behind. We suggest that you take the Seal of Merlyn
because you'll need it later on. The Wispwood is inhabited by
Wisps and Elves. You can sample the arcade style features of
Dragontorc by selecting BANE and attacking the Wisps but be
careful of your energy level.

Explore the wood to collect the MISSILE spell. Find the stone and
use the Seal to get under it and into the Lost Vaults of Locris.
Attack the Skeletons in the vaults with MISSILE - collecting
further spells as you go. When you have completed Wispwood
and the Vaults you'll get a message from Merlyn telling you
where to go next.

Hints for Experienced Users

 1) Dragontorc is not just a sequel to Avalon - it's a whole new
    world of experience. There are peoples and creatures who
    have lives of their own. How to deal with them is crucial to
    your progress.
 2) You can now select the MOVE spell very quickly by hitting
    Left or Right whilst in the "scroll" mode.
 3) Other creatures are often unfriendly and may try to kill you.
    You will have to overpower them. Some, like the Elves, are
    fairly harmless. If you trade with them you will win their con-
    fidence and they will become more useful to you.
 4) The characters of the other creatures will change as you
    progress depending on how you treat them: You may be able
    to win over the most dastardly enemies if you try hard
    enough - but you may get killed off several times in the pro-
    cess!
 5) Each stone circle is a separate explorable area. Some circles
    have underground levels which are accessible through trap-
    doors etc.
 6) If you are killed you return to the beginning of your current
    area. The objects that you were carrying remain at the place
    where you were killed although they may be picked up by
    one of the creatures in the game.
 7) Leylines connect each area - mark them on the map as you
    discover them.
 8) Make a note of Merlyn's messages as they appear because
    they usually only appear once.
 9) Your score increases as you discover objects or spells, when
    you defeat enemies or unlock doors etc.
10) Your current rank is displayed posthumously when you are
    killed.

                       DETAILED INSTRUCTIONS

This game has a number of features you will not have
previously encountered and though you will quickly
become accustomed to them, these detailed instructions
are necessarily lengthy. If you get stuck you are advised
to read the relevant instructions carefully.

Basic Control

The controls for Dragontorc are very straightforward -
Up, Down, Left, Right and Fire. You are asked to select
your keyboard/joystick preference before the game
begins.

No other commands are necessary during play although
the P and O keys freeze and unfreeze the game respec-
tively and the Save and Load keys (S and J) can be used
to SAVE the current game and LOAD it at a later date.

Loading a New Game

If you have a joystick then plug it into the edge connector
at the read of you Spectrum. Connect your cassette
player to the Spectrum in the usual way. Place the cas-
sette in the player, rewind if necessary and press the Play
button. Type LOAD "" on the Spectrum keyboard and
press the Enter key. Wait a few minutes and choose the
joystick or keyboard option followed by Enter.

Winding the Scroll

When Dragontorc has loaded and the initial screens are
completed you will be presented with a view of a forest
clearing with a pathway on the right hand side. Maroc
sits cross-legged in the centre and a large scroll is dis-
played at the bottom of the screen on which the words
MOVE, SERVANT and BANE are written (these are
spells). A large arrow points to the spell which will be
selected when the 'fire' button is pressed. Moving the
joystick up or down scrolls the lists of spells slowly at first,
then quickly. To scroll very slowly, just repeatedly touch
the joystick up and down and the scroll will move one pos-
ition at a time. When you have many spells it is best to
fast scroll until you see the spell you need and then stop.
Adjust up or down by the one touch method until the
arrow points to the right place.

Selecting the MOVE spell

To move, first align the MOVE spell with the arrow. Press
the FIRE button once and the scroll changes to display
MOVE in the top left of the scroll - this is the spell you
have selected. Three M's to the right of MOVE tell you
you have three or more uses of the spell left. On the far
right is a staff - this is the carrier of the MOVE spell and
you will notice that Maroc is carrying a staff in his right
hand. Underneath is the phrase 'project thy soul' which
is a clue to the effect of the MOVE spell.

Press the FIRE button again and the staff on the scroll will
flash. This tells you that the MOVE spell is now activated.
Pressing the FIRE button again de-activates the spell and
the scroll returns.

There is a second, emergency method for selecting
MOVE. Deselect your current spell by pressing Fire and
hit Left or Right. Move is selected immediately.

Try selecting and deselecting MOVE by either method a
few times. When you have finished make sure the staff
on the scroll is flashing.

Energy Level

Across the bottom of the scroll is a flame. This is a dis-
play of the energy you have left. The longer the flame the
more your energy.

Moving around

You can now use the keyboard or joystick (depending on
which was originally selected) to move the wizard
around. Notice the wizard cannot pass through the trees
but he can move down the gravel paths (represented by
dots on the "ground") to an adjacent location.

Explore the Wispwood Forest. There are magic items for
you to collect by moving Maroc so that he passes over
them. You will encounter Wisps and Elves as you move
around.

Below the Forest are the Lost Vaults of Locris. Each loca-
tion in the Lost Vaults is separated by a door. To open the
door take Maroc (the wizard) up to the door knob and the
door will open. Now take Maroc through the door. This
operation will take a little practice but you will soon mas-
ter it.

Collecting Spells

If Maroc collects a magic item the demon at the top of the
screen flashes. When this occurs, turn off the MOVE spell
by pressing the Fire button. You will usually see that a
new spell has been added to your Spell List. Sometimes
you will collect a duplicate of a spell which you already
have in which case your Spell List will be unchanged.
However you will now be able to use the spell more
times. For example, if you collect more than one copy of
the MISSILE spell you will be able to fire it more times
before it becomes exhausted.

The SERVANT Spell

The SERVANT spell gives you control of a sprite who can
pick objects up, give them to you or to other characters
by way of trade, take things from your sack, throw
objects, hit things with objects, etc. He is moved with the
control keys or joystick. He cannot release an object
unless he is switched off by moving him off the bottom of
the screen, or unless Maroc or someone else takes the
object. The name of the object appears on the scroll.

The sack on Maroc's back can hold a small number of
objects. When you have collected a few objects using the
SERVANT and placed them in the sack, find a quiet place
and experiment taking things from the sack and replac-
ing them. When taking an object from the sack steer it
away from Maroc or he will take it back again. You will be
able to use the SERVANT to look through the objects in
the sack by moving the sprite to and from the sack.

Exploring Dragontorc

As you move about you will encounter various people
and creatures, some friendly who may help you, some
unfriendly and dangerous. If they attack you they will
drain your energy. You can deal with them by attacking
with a spell or object, running away and escaping
through a leyline, frightening them, or making friends
with them. They may have objects to give you or they
may steal objects from the place you are in. You may be
able to trade with them.

Dragontorc is very complex. There are over 250 rooms,
forest clearings, caves, crypts and stone circles to
explore, connected by magical leylines. Just like an ordi-
nary adventure you must do the correct sequence of
things to progress in the game. Here are some clues to
help you:

* Almost all significant objects are coloured differently
  from the location in which they are found.

* Some exits are locked and you must find the key.

* Some exits are invisible until you solve a problem.

* There are some spells and objects to help you main-
  tain your energy as you penetrate further.

* Merlyn will give you instructions whenever he can.
  This will usually be when you find an artifact with
  energy - enabling him to transmit his thoughts to you.
  His instructions will appear on the scroll and you will
  need to write them down as they may only appear
  once.

Making a Map

If you wish to pause to make a map or for any other
reason press the 'P' key to freeze the game and the 'O'
key to unfreeze it.

Each stone circle on the map is the location of a separate
explorable area. A separate map can be made for each
area. Some areas have underground levels that overlap
the ground level requiring two maps.

Leylines

As you discover leylines mark them in on the map of
Britain.

Spell Display

At the top of the spell display is the spell name which is
a clue to the spell's use, and a number of magic tokens.
This part of the scroll is replaced by the name of the part
of the underground citadel you have reached whenever
you pass into a new room.

Magic Tokens

The number of tokens indicates how many more times
the spell may be used. When there are three tokens, the
spell may be used three or more times more. When only
two tokens appears it warns that you can only use the
spell twice more. On the spell's last use, only one token
is displayed.

Energy Display

On the lower half of the spell display is a dragon's tongue
of flame. This is a visual display of your remaining
energy. When the flame grows short and disappears you
will die and be returned to the beginning of your current
area. An audible bleep can be heard every time you lose
or gain energy. The higher the beep, the more energy
you have.

Background Spells e.g. BANE

Background spells when activated last until you switch
them off. You are allowed to select another spell while
these spells are running, for instance, you can MOVE
whilst UNSEEN. When activated, the spell list is dis-
played. The background spell name, shown on the small
scroll on the bottom right of the screen, reminds you that
you have a background spell running. Energy used by the
spell will be deducted every few seconds. To turn
background spells off, reselect the spell and press Fire.

Foreground Spells e.g. ENERGISE

These have an instant effect when activated after which
the spell scroll is redisplayed.

Cursor Spells e.g. SERVANT

These display some form of object whilst active and the
object can be directed with the keyboard controls or
joystick. To switch the spell off, press Fire or move the
object off the bottom of the screen.

Missile Spells e.g. MISSILE

These are rather like cursor spells. The spell energy is
fired from Maroc to the cursor by pressing Fire and
switches off automatically after firing. The spell may also
be switched off without firing by moving the cursor off
the bottom of the screen.

Scoring

A digital score is updated every time you acquire spells,
useful objects, defeat enemies, unlock doors, etc. Each
time your energy is depleted and you return to the first
location your current rank is displayed. In this game
Maroc starts as a Magician. There are eight ranks he can
master, each divided into eight stages:

STAGES                         RANKS

Apprentice                     Magician
Minor                          Sage
Lesser                         Lore Master
Learned                        Warlock
Master                         Wizard
Chief                          Sorceror
High                           Guardian of Lore
Supreme                        Lore Lord

You start the game as an Apprentice Magician. It is not
possible to go down in rank in this game.

Saving and Loading an Old Game

The game may be saved in its current state at any time by
pressing 'P' to freeze the game, placing a blank cassette
in your recorder and pressing the Save key. On comple-
tion, or if an error is detected or Break is pressed, press
'O' to restart the game.

An old game can be reloaded by first LOADing the origi-
nal "Dragontorc" cassette and then pressing the Load
key and LOADing the cassette on which you saved your
previous game. If an error is detected or Break is pressed
then the game resets for you to try to LOAD your saved
game again.

© Copyright. Hewson Consultants Ltd. 1985
The program and data on this cassette are copyright
and many not be reproduced in part or in whole by any
means without the written permission of Hewson Con-
sultants Ltd. All right reserved. No responsibility is
accepted for any errors.

Our policy is one of constant improvement. Therefore
we reserve the right to modify any product without
notice.

Other product for the ZX Spectrum from Hewson
Consultants:

CASSETTES:

Technician Ted                  48K     Ł5.95
Avalon                          48K     Ł7.95
3D Space Wars               16K/48K     Ł5.95
3D Seiddab Attack           16K/48K     Ł5.95
3D Lunattack                    48K     Ł7.95
DiLithium Lift              16K/48K     Ł5.95
Nightflite II               16K/48K     Ł7.95
Heathrow International
  Air Traffic Control           48K     Ł7.95
Countries of the World      16K/48K     Ł5.95
Fantasia Diamond                48K     Ł7.95
Quest Adventure                 48K     Ł5.95
Backgammon                  16K/48K     Ł5.95
Knight Driver                   48K     Ł5.95

BOOKS:

20 Best Programs for the ZX Spectrum
    by Andrew Hewson                    Ł5.95
40 Best Machine Code Routines
for the ZX Spectrum
    by Andrew Hewson and John Hardman   Ł5.95
Machine Code Extensions
for Spectrum Basic
    by Rob Banks                        Ł5.95

Hewson Consultants Ltd.
Hewson House
56B Milton Trading Estate
Milton
ABINGDON
Oxon, OX14 4RX
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[Original inlay card re-typed in 2004 AD
by Alessandro Grussu - http://www.ag-online.da.ru
Please note: Typographical errors are the same as
in the original!]
Re-edited (Hewson version) with correct Spectrum instructions by Frode Tennebř, 20070408.
