Dynamite Dan II
from Mirrorsoft

The Game
""""""""
  The youth of the world is being helplessly mesmerised - their brains
sucked dry - by apparently innocuous pop records. Someone has been
corrupting the vinyl with subliminal, mind-destroying sound waves.
There's only one person who could be responsible for such an
outrage - that's right, Blitzen is back, poised to wreak havoc on an
unsuspecting planet.
  Your task as Agent Dan is to get into the group of eight islands
known as Arcanum, where Blitzen has set up his secret headquarters.
You must find the one record hidden on each island, locate the
jukebox, and play the record. Then you must refuel your trusty blimp
and go on to the next island. When the eighth island is reached (the
pressing plant), and the last record has been played, you must place
a bomb in Blitzen's lab. You've now got just 3 minutes to get back to
the zeppelin before the plant goes up.

Controls
""""""""
Left    - A, D, G, J or L
Right   - S, F, H, K or ENTER
Down    - W, R, Y or I
Up/Jump - Z, X, C, V, B, N, M or SYMBOL SHIFT

Pause/Restart - P
Quit          - Q

Useful Objects
""""""""""""""
Bombs   - blow doors giving access to other parts of playing area
Goggles - provide immunity from memerism
Record  - must be played before moving to next island
Fuel    - refuels zeppelin
Food    - gives energy top up

Some objects allow special facilities such as invisiblity, immunity,
etc. but you will only find this as you progress through the islands.
There are also 3 unique objects on each island which are lost after
the zeppelin takes of - but we'll leave you to find out what they are
or what they do!

Hints
"""""
  Dan has only one life, but contact with sprites causes a reduction
in energy. Energy can be topped up by eating food. Sprites can steal
various items you hold, for example magenta sprites take fuel as it,
too, is magenta.
  Watch out for Blitzen zapping at you with his pschon ray gun. If he
hits you, you're mesmerised and will wander out of control for a short
while.
  Each island contains one secret passage, which can only be accessed
if you are carrying a particular object.

           THE SAFETY OF THE WORLD IS IN YOUR HANDS
              CAN YOU BEAT BLITZEN ONE MORE TIME?
