Emerald Isle
from Level 9 Computing

Emerald Isle lies in the Bermua Triangle, hidden by fogs and
treacherous waters and peopled by the remnants of a strange
civilisation. This is a massive adventure and, if you read the gold
label, you'll probably find this version has over 200 pictures!

Level 9 Computing specialise in adventures. Big adventures with over
200 locations, detailed scenery and interesting storylines. This means
more enjoyment for you and we'll send a free clue sheet, with hundreds
of answers, if you get stuck.

All adventures have SAVE and RESTORE commands for the state of play and
graphical games have PICTURES and WORDS to turn graphics on and off.

This game is designed to have graphics on most micros, but don't worry
if the version for your computer is pure-text. The puzzles are the
same, and there is more room for longer messages.

  You play the part of an aircraft pilot, employed to ferry urgent
'documents' around the Carribean. Fierce winds seize the 'plane over
the Bermuda Triangle and hurl it to destruction; you escape by
parachute at the last moment.
  As you float down towards an island below, you recognise the
coastline from an old map. It is the lonely atoll, "Emerald Isle",
which few people visit and from which none return.
  It is said that only one person may leave - the ruler of the land -
and that each visitor is tested. Success promotes you to King or
Queen, failure promotes you to the next life.
  Explore peculiar towns, meet peculiar people, learn the peculiar
purpose of the 'letters' and travel on a railway which is simplicity
itself compared to BR's peculiar fare system. Don't be too afraid of
the dark, and watch out for the spider!

                         ABOUT LEVEL 9

  "Ask any dedicated adventure player to name a software house and
it's quite likely that the answer will be Level 9. Not only do they
produce a range of consistently high class software for seven
different machines but they've also been around for a long time. In a
business that has seen the rapid rise and fall of many a well known
name, that's something of a rarity.
  Level 9 is definitely a family concern, run in a very business-like
manner from the Austin residence. The three partners and chief
programmers are all brothers - Pete, Nick and Michael Austin, their
sister Margaret is the marketing manager and the mail-order business
is run by Mrs Austin Senior ...
  'How did it all start?' I asked him(Pete). 'With a Nascom and
60 Pound' he replied ... Of the original 60 Pound, 20 Pound went on
tapes and 20 Pound on classified advertisements in hobbyist magazines."
                                                       - Software Today
"Level 9 (are) arguably the producers of the best adventure game in
the UK."
                                                           - Acorn User
"There can be no doubt that Pete Austin and the team at Level 9 are
the 'Lords of Adventure'."
                                               - Central Press Features
