Exolon (c) 1987 Hewson Consultants Ltd
--------------------------------------

SCENARIO

As a heavily armed humanoid, you blast, battle, bound and blunder your way
over more than hundred screens of blood curdling action. Release a deadly
grenade to devastate a birth pod and shoot the hordes of aliens that slither
and scramble to overwelm you. Rocket a gun emplacement and pneumatic hammers
hurl you end over end back across the screen. And in a new twist, some of
the screens can be played as a vulnerable but athletic Vitorc or as Exolon,
a lumbering but powerful exoskeleton.

LOADING

Spectrum Cassette

48K ZX Spectrum, ZX Spectrum Plus or ZX Spectrum 128 with cassette player,
ZX Spectrum +2.

You are advised to disconnect all hardware from the rear edge connector with
the exception of your joystick interface (if any). When using a Sinclair
Unterface 2 or the ZX Spectrum +2 plug the appropriate Joystick into port 1.
Unless using a ZX Spectrum +2 connect a cassette player to the computer in
the usual manner. ZX Spectrum +2 and 128 users should select 48K mode.
Rewind the cassette if necessary, enter LOAD"" on the computer keybopard and
press the ENTER key. Press the PLAY key on the cassette player. The game
takes a few minutes to load.


CONTROLS

O = LEFT
P = RIGHT
Q = Jump
A = Duck
M = Fire

Alternatively, a joystick may be used.

PLAYING THE GAME

With both keyboard and joystick, if the fire button is pressed rapidly, then
blasters operate. If pressed and held for more than half a second then a
grenade will be lobbed.

Blaster
Small hand blaster which destroys virtually all organic enemy life forms.
Can penetrate thin armour with several direct hits, but is useless against
'thick skinned' gun emplacements etc.

Grenades
In general, where your hand blaster is not effective use a grenade. Powerful
enough to destroy heavily armoured battle machinary, grenades can penetrate
thick walls and rock faces thus providing alternative routes through the
battle zone.

Hyper-alloy Exoskeleton
A hydraulically manoeuvred exoskeleton which the main character wears
enabling him to effortlessly wade through enemy hordes, protecting him from
all but the most powerful of enemy guns and projectiles.

SCORING

Destroying obstacle with grenade    150 pts
Large aliens                        150 pts
Small pod aliens                     50 pts
Missile shells                       50 pts
Walking into double launcher       2000 pts
Waling into combined launcher      3000 pts
Detroying missile guidance module  1000 pts

At the end of every level (25 screens) points are awarded as follows:

Number of lives left multiplied by 1000
If not wearing exoskeleton then 10000 points are also awarded.

Extra life is given at the end of each level, unless nine lifes are still
remaining.

CREDITS

Written for the Spectrum and Amstrad by Rafaelle Cecco and converted to the
Commodore 64 by Nick Jones.

(c) Hewson Consultants 1987

The program and data are copyright and may not be reproduced in part or in
total by any means without the written permission of Hewson Consultant Ltd.
All rights reserved. No responsibility is accepted for any errors.

Our policy is one of constant improvement. Therefore, we reserve the right
to modify any product without notice.

Hewson Consultants Ltd.
56b Milton Park
Milton
Abingdon
Oxon OX14 4RX

Complete Instructions typed in by Paul Thompson, March 2003
