Factory Breakout (c) 1984 Poppy Soft 
------------------------------------

The robot factory on the planet Xial has been taken over by alien monsters
who have activated the factory's self destruct mechanism. The only robot
left alive is Zirky. Can you help him to evade the monsters and breakout
of the factory?

Whilst Zirky is still in his egg capsule the self destruct mechanism has
caused deadly micron rays to shoot at him from all directions. His capsule
is fitted with a short range defence laser which Zirky must hold off the
attack. When the column of energy below Zirky reaches the capsule, he will
hatch out into the very latest design Zirconium Mk III robot.

Next Zirky must cross the perilous rejection line which has gone out of
control. Zirky has to dodge the reject rays in order to cross the pillars
to safety. He must not hang about though, otherwise the killer Canary will
fly up and try to kill him. Also watch out for the moving conveyor belts
on the harder levels. 

Once across the rejection line Zirky enters the lift room which has a
green life on either side. Upon entering a lift he is automatically sucked
up and can exit at any opening on the way up. Zirky must drop down through
the many doors in order to change their colour and finally obliterate
them. The Alien Monsters, however, are intent on exterminating Zirky,
whose only defence is to break open a flashing force field, at the other
side of the screen, which weakens the monsters. If he hits a monster while
it is flashing he will annihilate it. The monsters regain their strength
after a few seconds, so Zirky has to be quick.

If Zirky discovers the key to the factory he can be sure he is only one
screen away from freedom - so good luck and try not to let Zirky crack up!

HOW TO LOAD FACTORY BREAKOUT

1. Connect the EAR plug on the computer to the EAR plug on the cassette
   player. Disconnect the MIC lead.
2. Place the cassette in the player and rewind.
3. Type in LOAD"" then press ENTER.
4. Press PLAY on the cassette player.
5. FACTORY BREAKOUT will now automatically load. Several seconds later the 
   message FACTORY BREAKOUT NOW LOADING will appear. If it does not load
   successfully, adjust the volume control on your cassette player and
   repeat the instructions. For complete loading instructions consult your
   Spectrum manual.

OPTIONS AVAILABLE

At the start of the game the 'Hall of Fame' will appear and certain
options are available before commencing play.

Press:-

Key 'L' to select the difficulty level from ALPHA LEVEL (Easy) to EPSILON
        LEVEL (Difficult). The difficulty level is shown at the top of
        the screen.
Key 'K' to select keyboard operation - shown at the bottom of the screen.
Key 'J' to select Kempston Joystick operation.
Key 'P' to start the Game.

CONTROLLING ZIRKY

Zirky is fully controlled by either the keyboard or a joystick.

Keyboard Controls

Left  - Key '5' will move Zirky left.
Right - Key '8' will move Zirky right.
Fire  - Key '0' will fire the egg capsule's laser.
Pause - Key 'P' will pause the game during play.
Any key or the joystick will restart the game.

JOYSTICK CONTROLS

Press Key 'J' before starting the game to select Kempston Joystick
operation. For Cursor joysticks select keyboard operation.

WARRENTY

This POPPY SOFT software product has a 1 year unconditional warrenty. If
this tape fails to load it will be replaced completely free of charge, but
if the tape shows any form of physical samage please include È1.50 to
cover replacement costs. For a replacement tape, return the faulty tape
and receipt of purchase to POPPY SOFT.

COPYRIGHT

FACTORY BREAKOUT is the copyright of POPPY SOFT 1984. All rights for this
product are reserved worldwide. The game and name FACTORY BREAKOUT are the
propertypf POPPY SOFT and may not be copied, lent, hired or distributed in
any form whatsoever, either part or in full without written permission to
do so by POPPY SOFT LTD., The Close, Common Road, Headly, Newbury,
Bershire.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Complete Instructions typed by Paul Thompson, March 2003
