Fairlight II: A Trail of Darkness  (c) 1986 The Edge Software
-------------------------------------------------------------

Being the second part of thr Chronicles of the Land of Fairlight

AN INTRODUCTION

If yoy have played Fairlight 1 (The Light Revealed) then you will need
little or no introduction to the magical 3-dimensional world of Fairlight.
In this, the second part of the Cronicles, Bo Jangeborg has developed an
even more impressive version of the 3-D Worldmaker Technique allowing even
more surprised in your exploration of the land.

Playing Part 1 of these Chronicles is not essential before playing Trial of
Drakness, but you will certainly have a greater chance of understanding how
Isvar is to complete his tasks... This game begins exactly where the first
part ended, so if you played Fairlight 1 be prepared for an even larger,
even more complex game ahead of you!

If you have not played Fairlight 1 then note that objects and characters
that you meet in this game will tend to have 'real world' features such as
weight, momentum, inertia, and sometimes a degree of independent
intelligence too. Although, for instance, you (as Isvar) can carry up to 5
things, what you can actually carry will depend to some extent upon the
weigth of objects. Pushing a lightweight object will cause it to move more
freely than pushing a large heavy one foe example.

This revolutionary technique (which remains unrivalled more than a year
after its initial appearance on home micros!) allows you a fantastic degree
of detail in the 3D rooms and locations, and there are even outdoor
locations in this game - something that other games have steered clear of
before. Feel free to move objects as you might in the real world, or to
interact with them, stack them or use them as you might see fit. Youll be
surprised at the flexibility you are allows,

This game may take many months to solve, so don't expect to sit down and
complete it in the first evening! This is probably the first true 128K game
for the ZX Spectrum, which is twice the size of Fairlight 1.

Good luck!

The Edge
London 1986

LOADING & PLAYING FAIRLIGHT

To load this game simply enter Load "" and press ENTER. The game will load
and run automatically.

This game is effectively in two parts. On the 128K Spectrum these parts
are loaded all at once and you can play the full extended game to its
conclusion without the need of re-loading additional game data. However,
the 48K version loads the game in two sections: but to load part 2 you will
have to complete part 1. The game will automatically require you to play
your tape recorder in order to load the second part when you have completed
the first. You will also be prompted to re-load the first part should you
be lucky enough to get into the second, but unlucky in completing the game.

Trial of Darkness also features 'save game and 'load game' facilities. 
 
Controls:

Keys           Function
Y-P            UP & RIGHT
G-L            DOWN & LEFT
Q-T            UP & LEFT
A-G            DOWN & RIGHT
SYM/SPACE      JUMP
B-M            FIGHT
X-V            PICK UP
CAPS-Z         DROP
1-5            SELECT OBJECTS (5 'pockets')
6/7            USE SELECTED OBJECT
SYM+SPACE      PAUSE GAME

Whilst Paused:

Press 'S' to SAVE game (have recorder recording before pressing the key)
Press 'L' to LOAD a previously saved game.
Press 'O' to re-start the game.

Joystick: You can use the Kempston joystick. Pressing the fire button allows
Isvar to fight,  and all other functions other than Isvar's movement are
still under keyboard control.

CRONICLES OF THE LAND OF FAIRLIGHT

2. Trial of Darkness

The Undoing
The land had been dying by degrees over the millenia. The Light and Magic
that had once made the beauteous land of Fairlight a joy to behold had
gradually faded. It is known in the Lore of the Land that one day a wizard
will be born who will be called by the Elders to free the land again of the
dark grip that holds it. But has that time yet come?

Isvar, you have seemed to be called. You have been drawn by magic powers
into the castle of Avars, to the very place where the King of Avars was
slain. You had you thought been called by the kindly wizard Segar who legend
tells was entrapped in a tower within the castle. Knowing no better, you
heard the call of Segar and followed his plea to find the fabled book of
Light within the castle's depths, and have returned the book to your bidder.

But Isvar, you were decieved: for it was not Segar the Immortal in that
tower but the Dark Lord himself. And in taking the Book of Light to him you
have potentially sealed the fate of the Land of Fairlight...

A Meeting
I am free, but free from what? Surely it is true that I have escaped from
within the castle's forbidding confines, but at what price have I earnt this
freedom? Readily did I give the Book, the so precious Book, to the Lord of
Darkness thinking him to be Segar. Oh how foolish you are Isar! Was there
ever such a fool as you?!

But wait, what mists surround me by this gateway? Does his magic call within
again? Has it been but an illusion that I have escaped? Does he plan that I
take his place, to be trapped in that toqwer for all my days??

No... these mists... they are forming... forming into the figure of a man.
It is him! Again I see the image of Segar! But not this time evil Lord, you
will not fool me twice!

'Isvar', came a deep resounding voice as if from the heavens, 'are you yet
more foolish than even you look? Do not feel that you had any choice but to
give the sacred Book to our evil brother. It was written Isvar that you
would come; that you would find the Book again and that upon your actions
would lie the future of Fairlight.

Despair not, for in your despair id the Dark Lord's hope. You could not stop
him from gaining the Book, but now he must rely upon your inaction if he is
to achieve his ultimate goal of darkness in the Land. He is hidden, oh
Isvar, where you cannot yet know. But markyou this that you must seek him
within the Land and without it. Seek him where he lies for there he must be
at his weakest so that his power can turn that of the Book to his own ends.

'Go now Isvar. Turn not to look behind but rather go with all speed to the
length and breadth of this land. Search well Isvar or all is lost...

The mists fade, and I have this feeling of having been here before. Was that
indeed Segar? Am I being duped again? Can I even trust my own senses
anymore!

'But somewhere in the still silence of my inner heart I can hear a softly
spoken voice that I cannot shut out, saying: 'What you seek cannot be found,
but what you find cannot be lost...'

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

(c) 1986 Bo Jangeborg. All rights reserved by Softek International Ltd. This
computer program and leaflet are protected by the international laws of
copyright. No part of this manual or the accompanying game may be hired,
lent, or by any means whether electronic, magnetic or mechanical without the
express written permission of the publishers, Softek International.

The Edge, 36/38 Southampton Street, Covent Garden, London WC2E &HE, England. 

Complete Instructions typed in by Paul Thompson, March 2003
