FANTASIA DIAMOND
================

ADVENTURE WITH GRAPHICS for the 48K ZX Spectrum
by KIM TOPLEY author of QUEST ADVENTURE

The magnificent Fantasia Diamond, a family heirloom, has been stolen and taken to the 
imposing fortress across the river. Boris the Masterspy, sent to retrieve the Diamond has 
been captured and imprisoned. Now it is up to you ...

Meet many characters - the Guardian, the Toy Robot, the Conductor - each with his own 
life and personality. Some of them have a strong sense of purpose and should be handled 
with great care...

What the reviewers said of Quest Adventure:

"I can recommend it without hesitation."
			- Tony Bridges, Adventure Corner, Popular Computing Weekly

"...a very good game..."
			- Crash Micro

"A very satisfactory game."
			- Games Computing

"One of the classic adventure themes..."
			- Home Computing Weekly

"Comes closer to combining the thrills of Dungeons and Dragons with the intellectual 
problems of Adventure than any other adventure I can think of..."
			- Popular Computing Weekly


INSTRUCTIONS

Many years ago, one of your brave ancestors undertook a daring quest in the Kingdom of 
Rog. On his quest, he discovered the largest diamond known to man, now known as the 
Fantasia Diamond, and brought it to the safety of his home. News of the discovery spread 
rapidly, and many times, attempts have been made to steal FANTASIA, which was passed down 
to you as a family hierloom. 

Unfortunately, the latest attempt was successful, the thieves removing the diamond to 
their lair in a magnificent and imposing fortress across the river. To recover the 
diamond, you called in one of the world’s best-known righters of wrongs, Boris the 
masterspy, who made his way to the Fortress, only to be captured and imprisoned by the 
faithful Guardian who patrols the rooms and corridors for intruders.

Now your only recourse is to undertake this dangerous mission yourself — to enter the 
fortress, recover the fabulous diamond and rescue Boris.

Throughout your mission, you will meet other characters who will either help or hinder 
you, depending on how they feel at the time. All of these characters have their own 
independent lives. Some of them have a strong sense of purpose and should be handled with 
great care, while others behave in a fairly random way, as their fancy takes them. Not 
all of the other characters are hostile, but those that are have only one aim in mind!

When you start your adventure, you will be quite weak. You will find that most of the 
other people are stronger than you, so be careful with whom you pick a fight! You can, 
of course, increase your strenth by eating and drinking. As time passes, you will lose 
strength, which will ultimately result in death, so it is important that you eat and 
drink regularly. Your strength determines how many objects you can carry — the stronger 
you are, the more weight you can handle. If you let yourself become very weak, you will 
find that you cannot pick up even the lightest objects — and that can include food!


LOADING AND PLAYING “FANTASIA DIAMOND"

To load FANTASIA DIAMOND, type LOAD “” and start the tape from the beginning. When 
loading is complete, the machine will wait for you to press a key before starting the 
adventure.

The screen is divided into two independent areas. The upper area is used to display the 
actions of yourself and all the other characters, descriptions of what you see around you 
and what is happening. This area also contains the graphical representations of some of 
the scenes from the adventure. The lower area is used for your input and is also used by 
the computer to provide certain information to you, for example error messages.

During play, every character will undertake some action about once every fifteen seconds, 
whether or not you yourself do anything. If you start to type, all of the other 
characters stop until you press the ENTER key. Each character is then entitled to act 
after your command has been actioned. If you do not touch the keyboard for fifteen 
seconds, you will see the message:

You do nothing, and the other characters will go about their business. The following keys 
may be used:

A to Z (always capitals)
(space)
.	(full stop)
,	(comma)
"	(string quotes)

In addition, the following special key pairs can be used:

Caps shift plus 0 	Delete character to the left of cursor.
Caps shift plus 1 	Delete everything on the input line.
Caps shift plus 9 	Do all commands on the last line again.

Further, to make movement in the four main directions easier, the cursor control keys may 
be used:

5 moves west
6 moves south
7 moves north
8 moves east

To move in the other directions (northeast, up, etc,) you must type the command in full.

Note:

The cursor keys and “caps shift plus 9“ only work if typed as the first characters on 
a line, and their action is immediate — you do not press enter.

Up to 62 characters may be typed per input. When the input area is full, the cursor will 
stop. Only the ENTER and delete keys are then effective.


FANTASIA DIAMOND has a vocabulary of over 300 words, all of which may be typed in the 
input line either in full, or in an abbreviated form. When an abbreviation is used, the 
computer chooses the first word in its dictionary which looks like a match, so be careful.

For example, the verb EXAMINE can be abbreviated to EXAM or even EX, but not to E, which 
is interpreted as a short form of EAST.

Finding appropriate abbreviations is largely a matter of experiment.


THE LANGUAGE

FANTASIA DIAMOND has a fairly powerful language analyser which allows you to construct 
quite complex sentences. A sentence may contain several commands, each command starting 
with a verb. For example, you could type, as two separate commands: 

	OPEN THE DOOR 
	GO EAST 

or you could combine the two:

	OPEN THE DOOR AND GO EAST 

Punctuation is always optional, as is AND.

Most verbs allow you to use a list of subjects, for example:

	GET THE FOOD AND THE WINE.

In a very few cases, you will find that you can omit part of a command and the computer 
will still understand what you mean, but usually this is not so. As an example, when 
locking or unlocking things, you must also say which key you want to use — you cannot 
just say UNLOCK DOOR — that would be too simple! Sometimes, leaving part of a sentence 
out changes the effect:

	ATTACK THE ELF — means attack with bare hands.
	ATTACK THE ELF WITH THE ROD - use the rod as a weapon.

Parts of sentences, and even words, can be abbreviated. If you want to open a small 
wooden door, you could, of course, say

	OPEN THE SMALL WOODEN DOOR 

but it is quicker to say

	OPEN DOOR.

Other possibilities are

	OPEN WOODEN 
	OPEN SMALL 

and so on. Bear in mind, however, that the computer takes what you say literally and 
assumes that its meaning is clear. So, if you were in a place with a red door and 
a brown door and you said OPEN DOOR, the machine chooses one of the doors and tries 
to open it. This might mean that the wrong door is opened, or it might just mean you see 
an error message if the chosen door cannot be opened.

Abbreviating words is another way to save typing, but it can cause similar problems. 
Experiment to see what can be done, but if an abbreviated command does not work, try 
typing it more fully, e.g. for OPEN DOOR you could type OP DOO but not OP D, because “D” 
is interpreted as an abbreviation for “down". Errors of this sort can be very misleading 
so take care!

Another feature which you may find useful is that the computer remembers the last verb 
you used from line to line. So if you wanted to pick up a key and some wine, you could 
say

	GET KEY (enter)
and then just
	WINE (enter)

Because you haven’t started this line with a verb, the computer assumes that you want it 
to use the previous one. This applies to any verb like GET which allows you to use 
repeated objects.


ERRORS

Error displays always appear in the lower half of the screen. Once an error is found, 
the computer stops processing your instructions and comes back to you for more.

The most common error messages and their meanings are as follows

I DON’T UNDERSTAND THE WORD (word)

	When this occurs, none of the commands on the input line will have been executed.

I DON’T UNDERSTAND

	This occurs when the computer cannot understand the form of your command. You may 
	have missed some words out or typed them in the wrong order.


I CANNOT DO THAT

	The computer understands what you want it to do, but for one reason or another, 
	cannot comply, because the action is not sensible or is not legal. E.g., you 
	cannot talk to a dead person. 

YOU ARE NOT CAPABLE OF THAT

	The command is correct and understood, but you are asking to do something which 
	your character is not capable of.

WHAT?

	The computer is unable to make sense of your word order.


YOUR SURROUNDINGS

As you move from place to place, you will be given a short description of what is around 
you, and a list of the directions in which you can move. You will also be told of any 
objects or characters in the vicinity.

If you want to see the description of the current location again, you can type LOOK (or L
for short). However, you may want to inspect particular items around you. For example, 
suppose you type LOOK and are told this:

	You are in a small dark room.
	To the west is the wooden door.
	Obvious routes lead north south.
	You can see: The brown chest.

It is possible to get a closer look at the chest by typing:

	LOOK AT THE CHEST 

If you want to see what the chest contains, you can say

	LOOK INTO THE CHEST 

Of course, this does not work if the chest is closed. Similarly, if the wooden door is 
open you could say 

	LOOK THROUGH THE WOODEN DOOR 

to see what is on the other side. If you know that the place on the other side of the 
door is called “the little kitchen" then you may achieve the same by saying 

	LOOK INTO THE LITTLE KITCHEN


MOVING AROUND

In each place, you will be told where you can go. For example, consider this place again

	You are in a small dark room 
	To the west is the wooden door 
	Obvious routes lead north south 

You can easily move either north or south in many ways:

	GO NORTH
	SOUTH
	N
	S
	RUN NORTH
	etc.

or you could use the cursor keys 6 or 7 provided you do not type anything else beforehand. 
If you want to go west, you could of course just say 

	WEST

but if the door is closed, this naturally doesn’t work. Assuming that the door is open, 
you can also say 

	GO THROUGH DOOR 

or, if you know that the door leads to the little kitchen, you can try

	GO INTO LITTLE KITCHEN

or

	ENTER KITCHEN.

Another, less useful, way of moving is to follow another character who is now is an 
adjacent place: 

	FOLLOW BORIS


GETTING OTHERS TO WORK FOR YOU 

In this adventure it is essential for success that you cooperate with the other 
characters. There are times when you will be unable to get further without their help, 
because there are things that you are not capable of doing. At these times, you can ask 
someone else to help.

Suppose that you are already carrying so much that you cannot pick up a key that you need. 
Luckily, there is a trustworthy elf nearby who could carry it for you, so you could say:

	SAY TO THE ELF “GET THE KEY”.

Of course, characters don’t always do what you tell them, and you may be ignored. You 
could always try again — caps shift and 9 comes in handy here.

Bear in mind also that the elf has a mind of his own, so having picked up the key for you, 
he may run away with it, give it to someone else, drop it again, or anything he feels 
like doing!


BASIC COMMANDS

The game recognises all of these commands. There are many others, which you have to 
discover for yourself:

NORTH etc. 	GET		ATTACK
N etc.		DROP		SAY
GO		PUT		INVENTORY
RUN		GIVE		STATUS
LEAVE		EAT		HELP
ENTER		OPEN		HINT
FOLLOW		CLOSE		LOAD
LOOK		LOCK		SAVE
EXAMINE		UNLOCK

QUIT (start a new game)
PAUSE (suspend until a key is pressed)
WAIT (do nothing this turn)
COPY (allow printer output)
NOCOPY (disable printer output)
SCORE


SAVING AND LOADING

You can save your current position at any time by typing SAVE. Follow the prompts given 
on the screen. Saved positions are verified before the current game continues.

To load a previously saved game, just type LOAD and start the tape.

You can use the BREAK key at any time during tape actions to abandon the entire operation. 
This is the only legal use of the break key!

If a LOAD fails, the current game is lost and a new one is started automatically.


THE PRINTER

Output generated by FANTASIA DIAMOND can be sent to the printer by typing COPY. To 
reverse this, use NOCOPY. DO NOT PRESS "BREAK” WHILE THE PRINTER IS ACTIVE.


HINTS

In some places, it is possible to get some assistance by typing either HELP or HINT. 
There is no penalty for this. However, some of the clues are not quite straight-forward, 
and there are no hints for the easier problems.

If you cannot get the computer to do what you want it to do, either you are on completely 
the wrong track or you have used language too complex for the program to understand. 
Firstly, try to keep your commands simple — the fewer words the better. Refer to the 
section on error messages if in doubt.

The following general points should be kept in mind:

1. If a character refused to help you, it may be because he is not capable of doing what 
you ask, or he may not feel like it. In the latter case you could try again.

2. Doing nothing is not always the same as waiting This is important in some 
circumstances.

3. Do not give up hope when all seems lost. “Four walls do not a prison make” is true in 
FANTASIA DIAMOND, even when the obvious means of escape are not available.

Finally, a last hint for music lovers: the leader is more long-sighted than short-sighted 
and could be regarded as untidy in his ways. If you don’t oblige him, you will never 
escape.

Good luck!


© Copyright. Hewson Consultants Ltd. 1984

The program and data on this cassette are copyright and may not be reproduced in part 
or in whole by any means without the written permission of Hewson Consultants Ltd. 
All rights reserved. No responsibility is accepted for any errors.

Our policy is one of constant improvement. Therefore we reserve the right to modify any 
product without notice.
