GAUNTLET 3 - THE FINAL QUEST
============================

First there was Gauntlet, a dangerous adventure against powerful adversaries. Then 
there was Gauntlet II, the challenging expedition to cleanse a mighty dungeon of 
its terrible inhabitants. Now comes Gauntlet 3 - The Final Quest.

Enter the mystical world of Capra, the land of eight kingdoms and battle against 
the forces of evil unleashed by a demon king. Each kingdom must be freed from the 
legions of darkness before you can confront the demon king himself in a battle 
where there can only be ONE survivor....

The whole island of Capra is emperilled by the powerful Lord of Decay, Capricorn, 
who threatens to unleash the most awesome war. Only the bravest adventurers can 
halt him... if they're lucky.



THE FINAL QUEST

The ancient World of Gauntlet has many mysteries and dangers. Amidst its storm-
tossed oceans, legends speak of one land which surpasses all others - Capra, home 
of the Eight Kingdoms, Island of Magnus the Wizard-Peacekeeper.

Capra has seen many wars in its history, fought between the denizens of its lands,
mountains and forests. Death and misery wrought their harvests, and there appeared 
no end in sight to the suffering and agony. Then, seyeral centuries ago, a Wizard 
came, to counsel the rulers of those Kingdoms which remained, and bring them to 
peace. When all disputes were solved, and the borders redrawn, the Wizard said 
thus:

"I have brought peace, and peace there shall remain. From each of the remaining 
Kingdoms, I shall take a small portion, and thereof make my own Kingdom, the 
Kingdom of Magic. I shall build Gates there, between this world and the dark 
dimensions which would devour it. Then let this be my Law, the Law of Magnus 
the Wizard-Eternal, the Wizard-Peacekeeper. Should there be war ever again 
between the Kingdoms of this land, then shall those Gates be opened, and all 
the foul creatures of darkness let forth. This be the Final Peace; for if it is 
broken, all Capra will be at the mercy of the devourers."

The Kingdoms' rulers had little choice but to accept this truce, and so it was 
agreed - seven Kingdoms should become eight. In the wake of this agreement, peace 
came at last to Capra. It prospered, and creatures who were once enemies became 
friends. For three centuries, all was well. Then the Velcrons came.

Legends spoke of sleek war-galleys that skimmed the boiling oceans, and others of 
vast caves that broke open on the surface of the land. Whatever their origin, the 
Velcrons were the servants of those grim entities who chafed behind the Gates. 
Their purpose was singular, to bring the Eight Kingdoms to mad war once more, and 
cause all to be extinguished.

Insidious and lore-wise, the Velcrons sowed seeds of doubt and mistrust in the 
peoples of Capra. They brought the spectre of violent death back to the land, and 
gave false counsel to Kings and Nobles. Finally, they achieved their aim. For one 
brief week - before fear and reason combined cried hold - the armies of the Tree 
Kingdom marched against those of the Swamp Lands. Quickly, the other Kings rushed 
to establish peace once more, casting anxious eyes towards the Magic Kingdom, 
fearing the worst. When, for a while, there was no sign of the horrors foretold, 
all gave thanks to the Gods for their deliverance.

But, as the months went by, a curse descended on the land. The rivers which flowed 
out from the Magic Kingdom became foul, polluted and lifeless. New courses evolved, 
spreading more of the killing ooze. And the wind, wherever it blew, carried the 
stench of decay and death.

Those brave enough to venture within the Magic Kingdom - at least those few who 
returned - spoke of a new King there, a being whose flesh was studded with the 
features of those he had devoured; a being of corruption. He was known as 
Capricorn, and - somehow - he had made Magnus his captive, and taken his throne. 
Wise men deliberated and carne to their conclusions. During the brief hours of 
madness that had almost brought two Kingdoms to war, this being had passed the 
Gates. Capricorn was the harbinger of doom.

Thus Capra encompassed its ruin. Crops failed. Pestilence ensued. The poor were 
struck down by Disease and Plague. Worse, though, the peoples of the Eight 
Kingdoms began to whisper hatred against each other once more, and plots were 
hatched for war!

So the call has come to the bravest champions of all Capra. Eight are now gathered
for this, the greatest challenge in the Gauntlet saga. Will they prevail against 
Capricorn, and drive back his hordes beyond the Gates? Can they prevail, even 
though the very food they eat may be poisoned, even though there are few they dare
trust? For the sake of all Capra, we must hope so...



THE HEROES

THOR, THE WARRIOR

Of all men, none are mightier than Thor, the Warrior. He hails from the Volcanic 
Kingdom, a fierce, inhospitable place, which moulds great fighting-men. For a 
decade, his mighty battle-axe has struck aside the enemies of Capra, and pursued 
those who would fracture the fragile peace the island enjoys. Possessed of 
thunderous endurance and a strength matched by none, Thor's grim battle-charge 
strikes fear into all! 

ARMOUR: 	Tough Skin (Excellent) 
SHOT POWER: 	Throwing Axe (Good) 
HAND-TO-HAND:	Battle Axe (Excellent) 
MAGIC:		Poor 
SHOT SPEED:	Poor


THYRA, THE VALKYRIE

The Valkyries' Kingdom is the Lost City, a drowned land in which only those 
possessed of great strength and magical power survive. Thyra is one such. Many 
years ago, she left her home to go forth in search of adventure and treasure. Of 
all the Valkyries there have ever been, none has been more vaunted than copper-
skinned Thyra; her gleaming sword and rune-carved shield have carved a path 
throughout Capra. She is a legend, even among her own people.

ARMOUR:		Shield (Excellent)
SHOT POWER: 	Dagger (Poor) 
HAND-TO-HAND:	Sivord (Good) 
MAGIC:		Poor
SHOT SPEED: 	Good


MERLIN THE WIZARD

Few have studied under Magnus, and of them none was a greater adept than Merlin. 
During his time in the Magic Kingdom, he learned almost everything his Master 
could teach him. He also came to understand that magic could not master every 
situation, and left his studies at the last to travel the world in search of 
other secrets. Now, added to his arcane knowledge are great fighting skills and 
vast courage.

ARMOUR: 	None (Poor)
SHOT POWER: 	Spells (Poor) 
HAND-TO-HAND: 	Dagger (Poor) 
MAGIC: 		Excellent 
SHOT SPEED: 	Excellent


QUESTOR THE ELF

Once the elves were a race apart, living in what is now the Forest Kingdom and 
along the shores of the Sea Kingdom. But the ancient wars destroyed this proud 
people, and scattered them throughout Capra. Slowly, their isolated villages 
died off, and by the time peace came, they were already beyond all hope. Questor 
became the last of his people a decade ago, when he burned his home in the Forest,
along with the bodies of his family and friends, killed in ambush.

ARMOUR: 	Leather (Good)
SHOT POWER: 	Bow (Poor) 
HAND-TO-HAND: 	Dagger (Poor) 
MAGIC: 		Poor 
SHOT SPEED: 	Excellent


PETRAS THE ROCKMAN

As the first men were said to be made from clay, so came to Capra a race of living
rock, who made their home in mountain eyries, and lived their millenia-long lives 
in peace. But during the wars that shook the island, even their remote homes were 
not safe, and they were forced to defend themselves. Now, their warriors are among
the most feared of all, and Petras is first among them, a giant of living granite.

ARMOUR: 	Hard Skin (Excellent) 
SHOT POWER: 	Rocks (Good) 
HAND-TO-HAND: 	Stone Club (Excellent) 
MAG1C: 		Poor 
SHOT SPEED: 	Poor


DRACOLIS THE LIZARD MAN

Once, Dracolis was a thief and renegade, despised for his sly ways, as are many 
of his Swamp-dwelling people. After escaping prison, Dracolis turned over a new 
leaf, and has been a friend to the poor ever since. Some say he can afford to be, 
since he always seems to know where there is treasure to be found, and his 
greatest acts of bravery have always been followed by a healthy increase in his 
bank balance...

ARMOUR: 	Chain (Good)
SHOT POWER: 	Fire (Good) 
HAND-TO-HAND: 	Dagger (Poor) 
MAGIC: 		Poor 
SHOT SPEED: 	Moderate


BLIZZARD THE ICE MAN

What motivates this redoubtable warrior, who can say? His crystalline face betrays 
no emotion, nor does he ever show fear or doubt. Instead, he is always in the 
forefront of the fight against evil, a warrior dedicated to destroying those who 
would break Magnus Peace. His greatest weapon is the long-knife he carries 
permanently, the slightest touch of which chills an enemy to the bone...

ARMOUR: 	Ice-hard Skin (Excellent)
SHOT POWER:	Frost (Poor) 
HAND-TO-HAND:	Dagger (Poor) 
MAGIC:		Poor 
SHOT SPEED:	Excellent


NEPTUNE THE MERMAN

The Mermen of the Sea Kingdom, a proud and haughty people were involved in many 
of the wars before Magnus came. Since the Peace, however, they have recognised 
their faults. It is now part of their tradition that each Prince of the Blood 
should journey among the other lands, to understand their peoples, and bring them 
aid where he can. Neptune, the greatest of all Princes, made such a journey, and 
never returned from it. To him, the best way he can serve his people is to destroy their
enemies far from the wind-swept waters of their homeland.

ARMOUR: 	Robes (Poor)
SHOT POWER: 	Spell (Excellent) 
HAND-TO-HAND: 	Trident (Poor) 
MAGIC: 		Poor 
SHOT SPEED:	Good



KINGDOMS


THE THREE KINGDOM

The Tree Kingdom was founded by the tree-dwellers of the great forests. These 
creatures are normally peaceful, keeping small herd animals in pens on the ground, 
and gathering fruit and nuts, but the contagion from the Magic Kingdom has spread 
among them. Even some of the plants have now taken on a sinister new form, and 
the Emerald Crawlers which infest the land are deadly.

The center of Capricorn's malice in this land is a vast graveyard, within which 
there is an ancient temple. Somewhere within lies the means to defeat Capricorns' 
minions in the forests, if only it can be found...


THE MOUNTAIN KINGDOM

High above a yawning abyss, fragile pathways and swaying bridges wind their way to 
the heart of the Mountain Kingdom. There, it is said, lies a great treasure. For 
many who have walked these paths before, that treasure was the passport to death. 
For the Heroes of Gauntlet, it leads to the defeat of Capricorn in this part of 
Capra.

But it is a dangerous road. Stirred by necromancers and the accursed Velcron, 
ghosts, zombies will rise up to attack. This is a land to be hurried through, for 
those who stay for but a little while remain forever.


THE SWAMP KINGDOM

The Swamp Kingdom is an inhospitable region. Only those who know all its intricate 
paths and secret ways can hope to survive long, for the marshes are deadly, and 
inhabited with foul, pestilence-infected creatures. Worms, Emerald Crawlers, 
Plague Dogs and others prey on those who stray from the islands.

Deep within the Swamp is a Palace, wherein the people of this dank place have 
stored their greatest treasures. Among them, it is said, is the third part of the 
key to Capricorn's defeat. However, there is also much danger here, particularly 
where Death stalks the corridors.


THE VOLCANIC KINGDOM

Of all the terrors Capricorn has unleashed upon Capra, the greatest of all are 
the Fire Dragons. In this land above all they have made their home, and bar the 
way to success.

The Volcanic Kingdom is a violent place, where the magma from the world's core 
erupts onto the face of the planet, killing everything it touches. The Lizard Men 
who dwell here made their living by hunting for precious stones among the cooling 
magma, and riches are there for the taking. But the Fire Dragons covet the 
treasures of the Volcanic Kingdom for themselves, and will not easily part with it.


THE SEA KINGDOM

This Kingdom's treacherous coasts and sand-bars have brought many ships to grief. 
Wrecks dominate the landscape. Equally tragic is the sight of the great ruined 
city of the Mermen, who ruled the seas about Capra during the Age of Wars, but 
have suffered greatly at the hands of the Velcrons.

Throughout their realm, the influence of Capricorn's minions can be felt. Beneath 
the sand there lurks the mutated sea-weed known as Quickvine. Jellyfish stalk 
along the beaches, and Sharkmen, the most deadly of all the creatures of the deep,
have brought havoc to the land.


THE LOST CITY

The Lost City stands abandoned and shunned by all. Only fool-hardy treasure 
seekers have dared to enter, and few of them have returned. Those that did spoke 
of its guardian statues, the many traps and snares for the unwary, and its new 
citizens - Rock Vines, Sorcerers, Plague Dogs and Mummies.

Once this City was a shining jewel, and its men of science and learning ruled 
supreme. That is why it was destroyed. Surely the Lost City will provide some part 
of what is needed for the final victory.


THE ICE KINGDOM

The Bleak steppes and snow-fields of the Ice Kingdom are treacherous and deadly. 
The inhabitants of these wastelands are equally harmful. Emerald Crawlers scuttle 
from rock to rock, looking for food, and fierce Dragons use their powerful 
freezing-breath to trap food. Great sorcerers live here too, seeking the isolation 
they need to prepare their grim necromancies and wizardry.

The conditions are always cold and difficult, but the hazards of snow, ice and 
sudden ice-slides can make even simple travel a nightmare. Whatever clue to the 
defeat of Capricorn lies here will be dearly earned.


THE MAGIC KINGDOM

The Kingdom of Magnus, the Wizard-Eternal, is strange indeed. Its people live in 
gingerbread cottages, and yellow brick roads lead to an endless gallery of 
entertainments. Finally, he built a fantastic castle, both as monument to the 
Peace, and as his home.

There he placed the great bar to the dark dimensions, and sealed it with a bronze 
key and a promise. Should there ever be war on Capra again, the bar would be 
removed, and all the evil beyond would spill out to consume Capra.

Somehow, this dreadful fate has come to pass, and Capricorn now sits upon Magnus' 
throne, protected by Sorcerers, Zombies, Worms, Sharkmen and other evils, 
The Final Quest ends here, in either glorious success, or shattering defeat...



THE MONSTERS

GHOSTS

Wherever the Gauntlet adventurers roam, they will find the haunts of the undead. 
Ghosts will rise from their graves, seeking vengeance on anything that still 
lives! Even though they disappear after draining energy from their victims, Ghosts 
are best avoided, or shot at from a distance.


POLTERGEISTS

Minor spirits have also been animated by the presence of the Lord of Decay. 
Poltergeists have many ways of attacking the living, but it is part of their 
wicked sense of humour that they enjoy inhabiting large boots, and driving them 
to kick out at their victims...


EMERALD CRAWLERS

These beasts once lived only in the forests of the Tree Kingdom. Now they hunger 
for flesh, and can be found in many other places as well. The smaller ones are 
bad enough, having a dangerous bite. The larger ones, on the other hand, walk 
virtually upright, and have been given armour and weapons by the Velcrons. They 
are slightly more intelligent, and have proved their courage in battle. Only one 
thing still shows their close relationship with the smaller Crawlers - their 
powerful mandibles, with which they strip through the armour of fallen opponents, 
to feast on the flesh beneath.


SORCERERS

Legions of Sorcerers have dedicated themselves to serve the Lord of Decay, and 
they have brought much misery to Capra's innocent peoples. Their fire-spells are 
deadly, even to a well-armoured opponent. Apprentice sorcerers wear a hooded cowl, 
and learn the art of walking through walls. Once they have mastered this art, they 
become Mages, and wear a pointed hat in recognition of their rank. Sorcerer-Mages 
can teleport, seeming to appear and disappear at will, firing their bolts of 
plasma and then vanishing again. When they attack en masse, it is difficult to be 
sure how many there are as they shift from place to place faster than a man can 
blink.


KILLER PLANTS

Throughout Capra, there are huge plants which feed on unwary travellers. The 
Gauntlet Heroes are high on their list of favorite foods! The Venus Man Trap waits 
for its victim to come close enough, then strikes with great speed. Several types 
of deadly Vines can actually move across - or through the ground, and coil around 
their prey. Quickvine actually kills its victims by pulling them under the sand of 
the Sea Kingdom and drowns them there. Ice Vines, on the other hand, strike by 
suddenly thrusting icicle-like fronds through the ground when they sense the warm 
presence of prey. Other types of Vine are equally deadly...


ZOMBIES

Capricorn has awakened many re-animated bodies to plague Capra. Zombies are 
particularly dangerous since they feel no pain, and have to be completely 
destroyed before they are defeated. Even more grisly are those who never rise 
from the ground, but who reach up with clawing hands, trying to drag the living 
into the grave... There are many Zombies in the Mountain and Swamp Kingdoms, and 
in the Magic Kingdom, close to the source of Capricorn's power.

In the Mountain Kingdom, Capricorn has also raised the most villainous criminals 
of bygone ages, who return to this dimension filled with a deep hatred for all 
living things. The tonch of death remains on all Mummies, and their talons cause 
terrible wounds.


MUD MONSTERS

Foul creatures have risen up from the earth of Capra, made of mud or snow. What 
motivates such beings, what drives them to attack creatures of normal flesh and 
blood, no-one knows. Nothing dissuaded them from their purpose, and they can take 
tremendous punishment before they finally crumble.

They attack in a bizarre fashion by firing off small, living parts of themselves, 
which attack the victim and feed on his flesh until they are gorged, and return 
to the host body.


DRAGONS

When the first humans came to Capra, the Dragons were hunted into near-extinction. 
Only two types remain. Fiery Dragons live amidst the firé and magma of the 
Volcanic Kingdom, and their fiery breath can turn a Hero to ashes in seconds. 
The Ice Dragons dwell in the remotest parts of the Kingdom of Ice, and their 
breath is so cold it turns flesh and blood into fragile crystal. In the earlier 
Gauntlet Quests, Dragons were often found blocking vital passages, their awesome 
power capable of slaying the greatest Hero in a single moment. Now, in the open 
air, they are even more fearsome. Who can stand against such beasts?


WORMS

Spawned in the depths of the world, Worms are hideous creatures with a ravenous 
appetite. Worms relish the prospect of a complete snack on two legs, and many men 
have turned to jelly when faced with such a grim death.

And, if the ordinary Worm evokes such fear, imagine the terrifying aspect of the 
semi-liquid Lava Worm, as much magma as flesh. Their hot clutches are something 
no sane man would ever wish to fall into...


BARBARIANS

Armed with crude spears, these poor wretches have been possessed by Capricorn. 
Nothing human remains within them, and they fight like automatons, capable only 
of killing or being killed.


CRABS

The Giant Crab has been given a new lease of Ufe by the pollution Capricorn has 
unleashed into the seas around Capra. Bolder now than ever before, they have been 
sighted further and further inshore, scuttling in to attack with their deadly 
claws.


JELLYFISH

Another sea creature which has become more dangerous since the advent of Capricorn 
is the Jellyfish. It's deadly sting has always been feared - it can pierce even 
the toughest armour. However, Jellyfish have never existed in such numbers before 
now, and have never been so hateful towards mankind.


PLAGUE DOGS

These are huge mastiffs, with matted, patchy green fur, and they carry a host of 
vile contagions. Immune to all disease themselves, they are still victim to a 
particular madness, and become frenzied with blood-lust when they attack.


PIXIES

Pixies have always enjoyed taunting the inhabitants of the Eight Kingdoms, being 
keenly fond of tricks and senseless pranks. Small and fast-moving, Pixies are hard 
to defeat. They avoid direct combat, preferring to ambush their victims. Woe 
betide those who fall helpless into their hands, for the Pixie takes the greatest 
delight in torturing their captives before they find release in death...


SHARKMEN

Sharkmen are the cruellest, most senseless killers in the world. They fought many 
wars until they were finally defeated, and the Sharkmen have not forgotten the 
shame of that defeat. Capricorn has offered them the chance to be great once 
again. Some serve him directly in the Magic Kingdom, others have made their way 
to the Sea Kingdom, to renew the struggle.

They know the art of many weapons, but the true killing-pleasure for a Sharkman 
comes only when he can bring those endless rows of razor-sharp teeth into action. 
The Blood Kiss of a Sharkman is something few survive.


DEATH

The Velcrons are a race accursed. Their meddlings in best-forgotten arcane rituals 
have brought misery to millions, but - in many ways - they themselves suffered the 
worst. Once they were tall warriors, but their experiments with dark magic 
extinguished their strength. Then, one final mad experiment taught them how to 
suck the very life-force from other beings, and how to teleport to the dark 
dimensions instantly, to rest and feed on that which they had stolen.

The Velcrons are the greatest of all Capricorn's allies. They are immune to all 
physical challenge - only magic can dissolve them. Their touch is Death and by 
that name they are also known. It is only to be expected that Capricorn will have 
many Velcrons guarding the most precious of his possessions.



THE TREASURES

Though the Final Quest is filled with dangers, some aid can be found along the 
way. Chiefly, of course, the Heroes must have Food to survive, but the path to 
victory is made all the easier if they can find the magical aids which exist in 
profusion on Capra.

Capran magic depends for its potency on distilled essence from the dark dimensions. 
Properly concocted, this essence loses its evil power, and becomes a tool of a 
purer magic.

Alchemists brew the essence into potions, and these grant the power to castgreat 
magics. Of course, one trained in the lore of magic will make better use of this 
power than one untrained. The potion can either be drunk, for maximum effect, or 
just destroyed, so that the distilled essence acts immediately on whatever 
creatures are within range.

Capricorn's mad genius has found a way to corrupt some potions, so that they 
disable anyone who drinks them. On the other hand, there are potions which grant 
greater powers than normal. By combining arcane essence with other ingredients, 
such as dragons-wing, alchemists have created Potions which improve a Hero's 
fighting powers. A Potion concocted from essence and eagle's feathers, for 
example, grants the user lightning-fast Shot Speed, while another, distilled from 
essence, lion's blood and turtle shells, can make even a weak fighting man into 
a mighty warrior.

Other potions grant the power to manipulate even greater sums of magical energy, 
or to fire massive missiles at the foe... These special Potions grant their powers 
for only a little while, but they are an important aid in the fight against 
Capricorn, whose agents will seek to destroy them when they can.

Some other powerful magical devices can be found, although the lore about them is 
not well-known. Once, magical items of great power were common-place, but they 
have dwindled over the years. A few may remain to be discovered during the Quest. 
The most likely to be found are Amulets, inscribed with powerful Runes, carved 
with a stylus dipped in essence. These Amulets can grant great power - such as 
Invisibility. Handle them with care!

Of course, no Gauntlet Hero could survive long without regular meals. Endless 
conflict with the forces of evil can wear down even the strongest frame, and then 
only a flask of cider or a hunk of meat can revive the mighty. Capra's wealth 
ensures that there is always plenty of food to revitalise the Heroes. However, it 
can very easily be destroyed in a fight. Also, Capricorn has added a new and 
sinister weapon to the armory of those who oppose the Heroes... some of the most 
enticing meals have been poisoned...

Finally, one thing guaranteed to generate interest is the sight of a Treasure 
Chest. As they have looted Capra, much of this treasure has found its way into 
the hands of the Monsters. It is the solemn duty of all Heroes to liberate as 
much of it as they can.

Many chests are left wide open, and their wealth is free to take. Others are 
locked, and require the same Keys that open so much else on the island. A locked 
chest can contain Food, Potions, Treasure... and a great many other things which 
will be of value. They can also conceal cunning traps - so be warned. The Velcrons 
themselves take particular delight in hiding within some chests...

This then, is the tale of The Final Quest. At the end of the road, will peace have 
returned to Capra, or will the triumph of Capricorn be complete? The answer lies 
squarely in your hands, O Hero. Press FIRE, and the challenge will begin with the 
word "Welcome..."



GETTING STARTED 

CBM 64/128 CASSETTE
Press SHIFT and RUN/STOP keys together. Press PLAY on the cassette recorder and 
follow screen prompts.

CBM 64/128 DISK
Type LOAD"*",8,1 and press RETURN. The game will load and run automatically, 
follow screen prompts.

SPECTRUM 128K
Place Cassette/Disk in Computer, switch on then press ENTER.

AMSTRAD/SCHNEIDER CPC CASSETTE
Press the CTRL and small ENTER keys together. Press PLAY on the cassette recorder.

AMSTRAD/SCHNEIDER CPC DISK
Type RUN"DISK and press ENTER. The game will load and run automatically.

AMIGA/ATARI ST
Insert disk and turn on computer. The game will now load and run automatically.

COPY PROTECTION (ATARI ST & AMIGA ONEY)
When you first start playing and sometimes at the beginning of a section of the 
game, you will see a picture of the code wheel which is included within the 
packaging of this game.

On-screen you will see two digits in the range 0-9, A-Z followed by a number in 
the range 1-18. It will look something like this:

				X - G - 15

Locate the first digit (in this case X) on the outer ring of the wheel. Now move 
the inner wheel so that the second digit (in this case G) is aligned under the 
first. Now look on the surface of the inner wheel for a small window labelled 
with the third number in the sequence (in this case 15). Inside the window you 
will see a single digit in the range 0-9, A-Z which vqu should type on the 
keyboard of your computer. Be aware that you may be required to input more than 
one digit.



CONTROLS


ST/AMIGA

	From credits screen...

		[Fl]		-	Select one player
		[F2]		-	Select two players
		Change character using joystick then press fire when ready.

	During game...

		P		-	Pause game
		[HELP]		-	Repeat last message
		Left [SHIFT] 	-	Player one magic
		Right [SHIFT] 	-	Player two magic
		[ESC]		-	Abortgame
		Joystick 1 	-	Player one
		Joystick 0 	-	Player two


CBM 64

	From credits screen...

		Fire button 1 	-	select one player
		Fire button 0 	-	select two players
		Change character using joystick then press fire when ready.

	During game...

		[SPACE]		-	Pause game
		[RUN/STOP] 	-	Repeat last message
		Left [SHIFT] 	-	Player one magic
		Right [SHIFT] 	-	Player two magic
		[Fl]		-	Abort game (In pause mode)
		[F3]		-	Sound On/Off (In pause mode)
		Joystick 1 	-	Player one
		Joystick 0	-	Player two


SPECTRUM

	All controls redefinable except the following... 
		[BREAK] 	-	Pause
		[Q]		-	Quit (In pause mode)
		[ENTER] 	- 	Continue (In pause mode)


AMSTRAD

	All controls redefinable except the following... 
		[ESC]		-	Pause
		[Q]		-	Quit (In pause mode)
		[ENTER] 	- 	Continue (In pause mode) 



GAUNTLET III © 1991 TENGEN INC. All rights reserved. * Atari Games Corporation. 
Published by U.S. Gold Ltd, Units 2/3 Holford Way, Holford, Birmingham B6 7AX. 
Tel: 021 625 3366. Copyright subsists on this program. Unauthorised copying, 
lending or resale by any means strictly prohibited.
