========
Horizons
========
Document created by rstuart@ukonline.co.uk on 23rd Dec 99 for
World of Spectrum: http://www.void.demon.nl/spectrum.html

Sinclair ZX Spectrum
Psion Horizons Software starter pack (C2)

An introductory software cassette for the ZX Spectrum. Includes a
comprehensive keyboard trainer and an entertaining and illuminating range
of programs.

Loading Instructions
--------------------
1. Connect the power supply lead to the 9 volt input supply at the back of
the Spectrum. Connect the aerial lead from the TV UHF socket at the back of
the Spectrum to the aerial input jack of your colour T.V. Switch on the
power of the TV and of the power supply. Tune your television to channel 36
until you see the Sinclair sign appear at the bottom of your screen.

2. Insert the Horizons cassette into your tape recorder with side A on the
top. Connect the ear-phone cable from the ear-phone socket of your tape
recorder to the earphone socket at the back of the Spectrum. Adjust the
volume and tone controls of your cassette so that they are roughly in the
middle to upper-end of their range.

3. With the cursor on the TV screen showing a flashing K press key J on your
Spectrum. The command LOAD will now appear at the bottom of the screen. With
the symbol shift key pressed down press key P to give " after the instruction
LOAD. Now type the letters sidea followed by " (symbol shift held down then
press P). The line you have just entered should appear at the bottom of the
screen as: LOAD "sidea". Now press the Enter key to give this instruction to
the Spectrum. The Spectrum will respond with a blank screen on the
television. Start the tape recorder and press any key. After a short time
fluctuating lines will appear in the border region of your screen. If a
short message appears entitled Program:sidea do not adjust anything and
thereafter follow the instructions that the Spectrum gives you. If no message
appears after 30 seconds change the volume setting on your tape recorder and
wait for a further 15 seconds. Continue this procedure until a message
appears on the screen. If nothing has appeared after 2 minutes, re-wind the
cassette and repeat the above procedure with a different volume setting.
Thereafter follow the instructions the Spectrum gives you. Load and run Side
B by typing LOAD "sideb" followed by ENTER key.

Horizons from Psion
-------------------
Horizons is a large introductory software cassette which contains many
programs. It has been designed to introduce you to the Spectrum, to describe
some of the hardware and systems features of the Spectrum, to teach you how
to use keyboard of the Spectrum and to entertain, amuse and enlighten you to
the possibilities of the use of your personal microcomputer. Side A includes
a sample interactive description of the Spectrum and an interesting
sequence of lessons to enable you to get used to the complex features of the
Spectrum's keyboard. Side B contains a range of interactive programs
including games, numerical experiments, the use of the Spectrum for
draughtsmanship, programs to illustrate sorting and filing and utility
routines which you may find useful later in writing your own programs.

Side A
------
Load and run by typing LOAD "sidea"
1. INTRODUCTION and simple explanation of the hardware components of the ZX
Spectrum.
2. KEYBOARD TRAINER - LESSON 1. The typewriter mode of the Spectrum
illustrating lower case and upper case letters and including tests.
3. KEYBOARD TRAINER - LESSON 2. Describes the use of Sinclair keywords
whereby commands are entered with one key stroke.
4. KEYBOARD TRAINER - LESSON 3. The cursor modes of the Spectrum keyboard
are demonstrated. Shows how to obtain different modes and apply them for
different purposes.
5. KEYBOARD TRAINER - LESSON 4. Extended memory entry is illustrated followed
by a comprehensive overall text.
6. KEYWORD DICTIONARY. A small call-up database containing all the Spectrum
keywords, their meanings and applications.

Side B  Load and run by typing LOAD "sideb"
------
1. THRO' THE WALL The classic game using bat and ball. Try and knock the
coloured bricks out of the wall to gain maximum points. An interactive
real-time program which demonstrates the speed, colour and graphics
capability of the Spectrum. This program is written in simple BASIC and
illustrates how you can write your own games.

2. BUBBLESORT This program illustrates how a computer can sequence or sort a
randomly ordered set of objects. In this interesting and amusing example a
bridge hand of 13 playing cards is dealt on to a green blaise table. The
program demonstrates how, by considering pairs of cards, it gradually orders
the hands according to number and suit.

3. EVOLUTION or Foxes and Rabbits This program shows in simple BASIC how
complex mathematical differential equations can be solved on even a
microcomputer like the Spectrum. Such non-linear equations apply to many
problems in science and engineering. In this example equations are introduced
for an ecological balance between two species of animals in the same
environment. Numerical solutions are obtained and shown graphically
demonstrating the high resolution of the Spectrum.

4. LIFE A machine code program giving fascinating and amusing patterns in
time and describing the growth and evolution of an imaginary colony of
beings.

5. DRAW A substantial program which shows the graphics capability of the
Spectrum. With the aid of a cursor and a simple set of commands this program
allows you to draw and paint complicated diagrams and figures in different
colours.

6. MONTE CARLO illustrates the study of how stochastic or statistical events
can be recorded and demonstrated on a computer. The program builds a bar
chart or histogram for the distribution of throws of a pair of dice. What are
your chances of throwing a 12 or a 7?

7. CHARACTER GENERATOR One of the unusual and powerful features of the
Spectrum is to allow the user to define his own characters or symbols. This
small program sets up a large grid of pixels on the screen and with the aid
of a cursor allows the user to easily generate his own characters.

8. WAVES Demonstrates the phenomena of "beating" in music and elsewhere.

(c) 1982 Psion Ltd.
Made in U.K.
