KLAX

The concept is simple - catch the different coloured tiles as they advance
towards you and flip each tile into one of five bins.  The object is to make
Klaxes: these are same coloured stacks or tiles, Horizontals, Diagonals and Rows
of three.  Once a Klax is made the tiles disappear, causing any tiles on top to
drop down and replace them.  For bonus points, set up the tiles to cause a chain
reaction of Klaxes.  Your paddle can hold a maximum of 5 tiles and once full,
tiles will just drop past it.  Similarly, each bin can hold 5 tiles, and when
full you will not be able to flip any more tiles into it.

The 'drop meter' in the centre of the screen shows how many tiles you failed to
catch.  Should you drop more tiles than you are allowed, or if all the bins
become full at the same time, the game will end.

A tile that flashes multiple colours is a 'wild' tile - capable of forming part
of a number of Klaxes.  For example, if you flipped a wild tile onto a stack of
2 blue tiles and it fell beside a horizontal line of 2 green tiles, both blue
and green Klaxes would be made, and all 5 tiles would disappear.

A speed up option is available which causes all the tiles on screen to hurtle
towards you at high speed.  Alternatively, use the Throw Option to flip a tile
back up the screen in order to pick up a tile of another colour.  Beware! You
can only throw one tile at a time, and it will still come rolling back with all
the other tiles as well!

The game is played by completing Wave after Wave.  Each Wave has its own set of
criteria for you to meet such as surviving for a certain number of tiles, or
getting a set number of diagonal Klaxes.  You will be told about these at the
beginning of each wave.

Remember, the harder the Klax the more points you score.  For example, diagonal
Klaxes are worth more than vertical or horizontal ones.


Control Keys 

Joystick:

Left    Move left       Fire Button    Flip tile into bin
Right   Move Right      Space Bar      Pause
Up      Throw tile      'S' Key	       Sound on/off
Down    Speed up

Keyboard:

O       Move left       Space bar      Flip tile into bin
P       Move right      M              Pause
Q       Throw tile      S              Sound on/off
A       Speed up
