                           Lancelot


                      Setting the scene
            PLUS A COMPLETE GUIDE FOR ADVENTURERS


                           Contents

Getting started ........................................... i
Preface .................................................. ii
Talking to Lancelot...................................... iii
Hints.................................................... vii
Official Secrets.......................................... ix
Loading Instructions........................................x
Background ............................................. xvii
King Arthur and the
 Knights of the Round Table ................................1

-------------------------------------------------------------
| Concept and game design: Pete Austin.                     |
| Game program: Mike Austin.                                |
| Story and final game text: Christina Erskine.             |
| Remainder of this booklet: Pete Austin.                   |
| Pictures: Joan Lamb, Neil Scrimgeour, Dicken Peeke,       |
|  Nusarath Jahan.                                          |
| Systems: Mike and Nick Austin, John Jones-Steele,         |
|  Mike Bryant.                                             |
| Transport to your Micro: Nick Austin and Mike Bryant.     |
-------------------------------------------------------------


-------------------------------------------------------------
Getting started
-------------------------------------------------------------

If you have not played a Level 9 adventure before, please read
all these instructions. If you are an experienced Level 9 adven-
turer, skip to the preface and just read that.
  Boot the disc or load the first cassette to start the game. If you
don't know how to do this, see the loading instructions on Page
x.
  When the game prints "What now?" or ">", it is waiting for
you to type a command. (The game also waits when it has more
text to print than will fit on the screen at one time; read what's
displayed and press either Shift or the Spacebar to continue.)
  This game knows four types of commands:
  Movement: Just type the direction you want to go: NORTH,
NORTHEAST, EAST (and the other compass directions), IN,
OUT, UP, DOWN or ACROSS. GO or RUN take you to a named
place, for example GO TO CATHEDRAL, and FOLLOW is
self-explanatory.
  Actions: For example, LOOK, TAKE THE HARP, DROP IT,
EXAMINE THE CROSS, WEAR THE HAT, DRINK THE WINE,
or GIVE CLOTH TO SIR MELIOT.
  System commands: EXITS, INVENTORY and SCORE give
information; WORDS, PICTURES, BRIEF, VERBOSE, EXITS
ON and EXITS OFF control what is output; UNDO takes you
back a move; SAVE, RESTORE, RAM SAVE and RAM RE-
STORE save your position or return to an earlier position, and
QUIT stops the game. See the example game, on Page iv for
more details of these commands.
  Commands to others: Lancelot could command some people
such as knights who were grateful to him for their freedom.
Type their name followed by a command such as SIR
GAWAIN, GO NORTH, TAKE EVERYTHING, THEN
FOLLOW ME.
  You can abbreviate commands such as SOUTH to S and
SOUTHEAST to SE, and even type several commands on one
line, like EAST, TAKE ALL, WEST. After typing a command
(or commands) press the ENTER or RETURN key.

                              i

-------------------------------------------------------------
Preface
-------------------------------------------------------------

Lancelot recreates the tales of Arthur and the Knights of the
Round Table, as told in Sir Thomas Malory's Le Morte
D'Arthur.
  Parts 1 and 2 follow Lancelot's arrival at Camelot, his rise to
become the best knight in the world, and the completion of the
Round Table.
  Part 3 then follows the Quest for the Holy Grail, the high
point for Chivalry, in which the best knights came near to God,
but which led to the destruction of the Round Table.

Hints for part 1, Camelot

* Lancelot must go to Camelot to be knighted by Arthur.
* Next, he becomes the best knight by valorous deeds in
Logris.
* Finally, on his return, Lancelot must look to Guenever.

Hints for part 2, Logris

* Despite the Damosel Maledisant's manner, her quest is
genuine.
* You score points mainly for freeing all the captive knights,
and Lancelot can command them.
* Ensure Galahad can come to Camelot.

Hints for part 3, The Quest for the Holy Grail

* Remember that virtue is what is important, so avoid sins.
* Galahad is the holiest knight.

  If you are really stuck you can get a comprehensive free
cluesheet with hundreds of hints, from Official Secrets (see
Page ix ), or direct from Level 9 at PO Box 39, Weston-super-
Mare, Avon BS24 9UR, England. You must enclose the clue
token from the packaging and provide a large, stamped, self-
addressed envelope (UK users), or four International Reply
Coupons (overseas users).

                              ii

-------------------------------------------------------------
Talking to the game
-------------------------------------------------------------

As you have seen, this game understands a lot of commands.
The following list is only part of its vocabulary, but it gives an
idea of what to try:
  North, northeast, east (and other compass directions), up,
down, in, out, across, climb, go, run, follow, again, attack,
inventory, quit, save, restore, RAM save, RAM restore, undo,
score, wait, shout, search, examine, blink, look, kneel, take,
drop, wear, throw, give, fill, empty, open, unlock, close, eat,
drink, light, press, wave, blow, exits, words, pictures, brief,
verbose.
  Many words can be abbreviated, for example: INVENTORY
to INV.
  The following example is not from the game but it illustrates
how to play. The player's commands are in capitals, after each
">" prompt, and any text in square brackets is a comment.

  Lancelot woke suddenly. He had been dreaming of
Guenever, and thought for a moment that it was she who had
kissed him.
> LOOK
Lancelot was lying beside a fountain, in a glade of the Forest
Sauvage. He could see a fair damosel.
  The fair damosel took a step backwards and stood, peering
timidly at Lancelot.
> EXAMINE DAMOSEL
She was Elaine, called at that time the Fair Maid of Astalot,
daughter to Sir Bernard of Astalot, in whose castle Lancelot
had recently tarried. She was holding a red sleeve.
  Elaine cast a look of love unto Sir Lancelot and besought him
to wear a token of hers at the jousts.
> GO NORTH
Elaine clutched at the bridle of Lancelot's horse and would not
let him ride past. "Prithee, my Lord", she said, "Will you wear
my token? Just tell me yeah or nay"
> ELAINE, YES
Elaine cast a look of love unto Sir Lancelot and twined the
sleeve about his arm. Then she walked away into the forest,
ever looking back at Lancelot until she was out of sight.
> NORTH
Sir Lancelot rode north and was on the edge of a great thorn

                             iii

thicket; the biggest that man had ever seen. He bethought
himself to see a treasure glinting within the thicket.
> IN
Sir Lancelot dismounted and walked in. He was trapped by the
thorns, completely unable to move.
> UNDO [Take back move - available on most micros.]
Lancelot was on the edge of a great thorn thicket; the biggest
that man had ever seen.
> INVENTORY
Lancelot was wearing a red sleeve.
Sir Lavaine entered from the south.
> EXITS
Exits lead east, south and in.
Sir Lavaine stopped in front of Lancelot. "Good sir knight",
said the youth, "Pray let me ride with you unto the tournament,
for methinks I am of my age strong and wight. I see you wear
my sister's sleeve and I would help her chosen champion".
> LAVAINE, FOLLOW ME
Sir Lavaine bowed.
> BRIEF, WORDS, EXITS ON
OK. OK. OK. [Locations will be described briefly, pictures
turned off and exits reported automatically in future. To
reverse these choices, you could use VERBOSE, PICTURES
and EXITS OFF.]
> E [EAST]
Sir Lancelot rode east and was on a forest road. Exits led east
and west. Lancelot could see a little gate across the track.
Sir Lavaine entered from the east.
> A [AGAIN - repeat previous command.]
Lancelot pushed the gate halfway open. Sir Lavaine looked on
with interest. Then the gate sprung closed, blocking the road.
> LAVAINE, WAIT THEN PUSH THE GATE [WAIT defaults
to WAIT 1.]
Sir Lavaine nodded.
> PUSH THE GATE
Lancelot pushed the gate halfway open. Sir Lavaine pushed the
gate the rest of the way open and it clicked in place.
> EAST
Sir Lancelot rode through the open gate and was at a junction
in the road where a winding track joined it from the north.
Exits led north, east and west. Lancelot could see a signpost.
Sir Lavaine entered from the west.

                              iv

> READ SIGNPOST
"Thou knight, which would enter into the Tower Perilous,
beware thou be well prepared. For the fiendly dragon therein
is proof against all weapons, save only one."
A great roaring was heard in the distance.
Sir Lavaine looked as if he had just remembered something.
"Ye must hold me excused at this time", he said, "For I have
duties elsewhere. But if God give me speed, I shall meet with
you again at the jousts". Spurring his horse, he galloped into
the distance.
> SCORE
Lancelot scored 10 out of 1000.
> RAM SAVE
OK. [Before facing the dragon, save the position in RAM - that
is in the computer's memory - in case you encounter diffi-
culties and want to return to this point, using RAM RESTORE.
To save to disc or tape, use SAVE and RESTORE.]
> GO TO TOWER PERILOUS [Let the computer work out the
route. Press any key to cancel this type of "high level"
command.]
Sir Lancelot rode north and was deep in the forest.
Sir Lancelot rode northeast and was on the edge of a clearing.
Sir Lancelot rode north and was before the Tower Perilous.
Exits led south and inside. Lancelot could see plumes of smoke
curling from its windows. A fierce bellowing echoed from
inside the tower.
> EXAMINE EVERYTHING
The sleeve was of scarlet cloth, well embroidered with great
pearls. The bellowing grew louder.
The plumes of smoke were flecked with glowing ash. Lancelot
heard movement within the tower.
> WAIT FOR DRAGON
[Do nothing until the dragon arrives]
Lancelot saw two great eyes within the tower.
A great gout of flame gushed from the doorway,
A hideous dragon entered from the north. It reared high above
Lancelot, opening its mouth like a chasm.
> MAKE SIGN OF THE CROSS
A good idea but, alas, the dragon was no fiend and could not
be banished.
The dragon's breath scorched Lancelot's face.
> KILL SERPENT [Strike it repeatedly]
Lancelot's blow barely scratched the dragon's scales. The

                              v

dragon's breath scorched Lancelot's face.
The dragon prepared itself for a deadly strike.
Lancelot redoubled his efforts and slightly wounded the
dragon. The dragon's fire belched forth again, and Lancelot felt
himself nigh unto death.
[This is rather one-sided, so a key is pressed to stop the
command.]
Did Lancelot want to continue? NO
> RAM RESTORE [Return to position saved earlier]
Lancelot was at a junction in the road, where a winding track
joined it from the north. Exits led north, east and west. Lancelot
could see a signpost.
> EXITS OFF [Stop reporting exits]
OK. A great roaring was heard in the distance.
> E
Lancelot rode east and came to the edge of a great river. Lance-
lot could see a small boat. This fragile craft bobbed high in the
water, rocked by every wave, its awning of white samite
fluttering in the breeze.
> GET INTO BOAT
Lancelot seated himself in the boat.
> E [To move boats, just enter the normal compass directions.]
The boat sailed east and was at the far side of the river. Lance-
lot could hear the sound of distant cheering, carried on the
summer air.
> RUN TO TOURNAMENT [Like GO TO, but without describing the moves]
Lancelot climbed out of the boat.
[A little time passes.]
Lancelot was on the tournament field surrounded by milling
crowds. He could see Sir Lavaine a priest and a great altar.
"Hail, best of knights", said Sir Lavaine, "I have been waiting
for you."
> EXAMINE ALTAR
It was a massive block of granite, carved with all manner of
signs of the cross. A sword was sticking through the altar.
The priest noticed Lancelot's interest. "Wit ye well", he said,
"that the haft and pommel of this sword are made of the bones
of divers beasts; and its virtue is that he handleth it shall never
be weary or hurt. But it belongs only to he that shall win the
tournament".
[Perhaps the sword is what is needed to defeat the dragon, or

                              vi

perhaps it will protect Lancelot so he can lead the beast to the
thorns, so its firey breath will burn them. In either case, Lance-
lot must first prove victorious in the tournament...]

-------------------------------------------------------------
Hints
-------------------------------------------------------------

1. Draw a map (or a series of maps). Remember that the EXITS
   ON command lists all the paths from each location.
2. To make life easy for you, the objects that matter in a
   location are normally listed in a sentence like: "You can see
   a shopkeeper and a bunch of herbs". (Some other authors
   mix in useful objects amidst the background scenery, but
   Lancelot avoids this). The rest of your surroundings are
   probably scenery, but by all means try to do things to them
   if you like.
3. Examine all the objects that you see and, as a rule, take
   everything that you can. Most objects are useful in some
   way.
4. Use the "high level" commands, such as GO TO TOWER,
   RUN TO ARTHUR, FOLLOW DRAGON, WAIT 5, WAIT
   FOR ELAINE and KILL DRAGON, which take the place of
   many individual instructions. Remember that pressing a
   key "breaks" out of such commands.
5. Some puzzles can only be solved with cooperation from
   other people (especially in the later parts of the game), so get
   used to giving orders. You can cancel orders given in error
   by typing, for example, DAMOSEL, STOP
6. Get used to using UNDO. If you make a mistake and get
   "killed" or lose a vital object, the UNDO command is avail-
   able on most micros and takes you back in time - to before
   your previous move. On larger micros, you can use UNDO
   many times in succession to retrace your steps a long way
   through the game.
7. SAVE your place occasionally, so that if you notice a mis-
   take too late to be able to UNDO it, or if the electricity
   flickers and your computer crashes, you can RESTORE the
   saved position and continue from there. SAVE puts your
   position on tape or disc (see the detailed instructions)
   and RESTORE can retrieve it later. RAM SAVE is quicker but
   less secure, as it saves the position in memory.
8. Try everything you can think of - even weird or dangerous

                             vii

   actions sometimes provide clues, and might be fun. You can
   use UNDO (or RESTORE if you have previously used SAVE)
   to recover if the results are "fatal".
9. You can word a command in many different ways. For
   example, if there were an axe and a ball on the ground, you
   could take the axe by typing any of the following:
   > GET THE AXE
   > TAKE AXE
   > GET ALL BUT THE BALL
   > LOOK AT THE AXE AND TAKE IT
   If the game doesn't understand your command, try
   rephrasing it and using synonyms. If the game still doesn't
   understand, you are probably trying something that is not
   important in the game.

                             viii

                        --------------
                        |  OFFICIAL  |
                        |            |
                        |  SECRETS   |
                        --------------

               Let's face it, at some stage in
                  this game you're going to
                          need help.

        A good move, before you start, is to send us a
      stamped addressed envelope. Then you'll receive a
     full set of clues before you need them, or at least
       before you get desperate for them. But the clues
            aren't the only thing we'll send you:

          We'll tell you all about OFFICIAL SECRETS.
        That's the club for people who want more. More
       than what? You might ask. But we can't tell you
       too much because we don't want to give the game
                        away . . . yet.

        Send a large Stamped Addressed Envelope or an
              International Response Coupon to:

                           Lancelot
                       Official Secrets
                         P.O. Box 847
                       Harlow CM21 9PH

     And in the corner of your envelope please mark which
                  type of computer you have

                              ix

-------------------------------------------------------------
Loading instructions for Lancelot
-------------------------------------------------------------

This section tells you how to run Lancelot on your computer,
and lists the specific features of each version. Should you
experience any loading problems, return the cassettes or disc
without the packaging to Mandarin Software at Europa House,
Adlington Park, Adlington, Macclesfield, Cheshire SK10 4NP.

-------------------------------------------------------------
Disc loading
-------------------------------------------------------------

Look down the alphabetical list of computer types and follow
the instructions for your computer. The underlined text is what
you type, and remember to press the Enter or Return key after
each command.

Amiga 500            Insert the game disc and turn on your
                     Amiga.
Amiga 1000/2000      Insert your Kickstart disc and turn on
                     your Amiga. When it asks for
                     Workbench, insert the game disc.
Amstrad CPC 6128     Turn on your CPC (6128 or 464/664
                     expanded to 128k) and insert the game
                     disc. Enter RUN"MENU"
Amstrad PCW          Insert your usual CP/M+ disc and turn
                     on your PCW.
                     Insert the game disc and enter MENU.
Apple II             Insert the game disc and turn on your
                     Apple II.
Atari ST             Insert the game disc and turn on your
                     Atari ST.
Atari XE or 800XL    Remove any cartridges. Insert the game
                     disc. While holding down Option for at
                     least five seconds, turn the Atari on. If
                     nothing happens, turn off the Atari for
                     30 seconds and try again.
BBC Master or 48k+   Turn on your BBC Micro, insert the
                     game disc and press Shift and Break
                     together. If this doesn't work, press
                     Control+Shift+D and Break together.
CBM 64 or 128 disc   Turn on your Commodore (while

                              x

                     holding down the Commodore key, if
                     you have a 128). Insert the game disc
                     and enter LOAD"*",8,1
IBM PC and clones    Insert the normal operating system disc
                     and turn on your IBM PC. Replace it
                     with the game disc, and enter MENU
Mac, Mac+            Insert the normal operating system disc
                     and turn on your Mac. Insert the game
                     disc and double click on the MENU
                     icon.
Spectrum +3          Turn on the Spectrum, insert the game
                     disc and press Enter.

-------------------------------------------------------------
Tape loading
-------------------------------------------------------------

Put one of the game tapes in your recorder, look down the
alphabetical list of computer types and follow the instructions
for your computer. The underlined text is what you type, and
remember to press the Enter or Return key after each
command.
  If the tape doesn't move, press Enter or Return again.

Amstrad CPC tape     Turn on your CPC. If it has a disc drive,
                     enter |TAPE Type RUN"" start the tape
                     on play and press the Spacebar.
Atari XE/800XL       Remove any cartridges. While holding
                     down Start and Option for at least five
                     seconds, turn on the Atari. Start the
                     tape on play and press Return. If noth-
                     ing happens, turn off the Atari for 30
                     seconds and try again.
CBM 64 or 128 disc   Turn on your Commodore (while
                     holding down the Commodore key if
                     you have a 128). Press Shift and Run/
                     Stop together and start the tape.
MSX 64k              Turn on your MSX, enter RUN"CAS:"
                     and play the tape.
Spectrum 48k         Turn on the Spectrum, type LOAD""
                     and play the tape.
Spectrum 128/+2      Turn on the Spectrum, press Enter and
                     play the tape.

                              xi

-------------------------------------------------------------
Saving to disc
-------------------------------------------------------------

To save game positions from the disc version of Lancelot, you
first need a blank disc of your own.
  Before playing Lancelot, format (initialise) this disc, using
the ordinary software bought with your micro. (Exceptions to
this are Apple II and Atari XE/800XL discs - Lancelot uses its
own disc format on these computers and will initialise the disc
itself.)
  When playing the game, enter SAVE and follow the instruc-
tions displayed.
  To return to a SAVEd position, enter RESTORE and YES,
and follow any instructions asking for one word from the story.
When entering a filename, you can either type a short word
such as POS1, or use the full format permitted by your par-
ticular computer.

-------------------------------------------------------------
Saving to tape
-------------------------------------------------------------

To save game positions from a cassette version of Lancelot, you
need a blank cassette of your own.
  When playing the game, start a blank tape on RECORD and
enter SAVE (if the cassette doesn't move, press Enter or Return
again). When the game starts running again, for example to
prompt for your next command by displaying ">" or "What
now?", stop the tape.
  To return to a SAVEd position, enter RESTORE and YES,
then follow any instructions asking for one word from the
story. Finally, rewind the tape on which the position was
saved, and play it (if the cassette doesn't move, press Enter or
Return again).

-------------------------------------------------------------
Save in memory
-------------------------------------------------------------

To save your game position in memory (all but the 48k Spec-
trum, 64k Amstrad CPC and expanded BBC Micro allow this),
enter RAM SAVE
  To return to a SAVEd position, enter RAM RESTORE
  Remember that saving in memory is very quick and con-

                             xii

venient - it is an ideal way of saving your position before
trying something risky - but a RAM SAVEd position will be
lost if your computer is turned off or crashes, so SAVE to disc
or tape occasionally.
  Note also that the UNDO command is available on all ver-
sions which have RAM SAVE. UNDO takes you "back in time"
to before Lancelot last moved: It's a bit like RAM RESTORE
where the corresponding RAM SAVEs are automatic. UNDO
can be used many times in succession on larger micros.

-------------------------------------------------------------
Additional features
-------------------------------------------------------------

The versions of Level 9 adventures on large micros often have
more facilities than those on smaller machines. Here is a
summary of the features available with Lancelot.

AMIGA FEATURES
--------------

* Colour pictures (use the mouse, with its left button pressed,
  to slide the picture up and down).
* Picture cache (avoiding unnecessary disc loads).
* Recall and editing of previous commands, by cursor keys
  and Backspace.
* RAM SAVE/RESTORE and UNDO.
* README file. For more information, boot the Amiga with
  Workbench, then insert the game disc and double click on
  its icon and README.TXT.

AMSTRAD CPC DISC FEATURES
-------------------------

* Colour pictures (use F8 and F2 to slide the picture up and
  down). To see more pictures, wait until the game has loaded
  and is waiting for you to type something - then flip the disc
  over.
* Picture cache (avoiding unnecessary disc loads).
* Recall and editing of previous commands, by cursor keys
  and Delete.
* RAM SAVE/RESTORE and UNDO.
* The Amstrad CPC disc also works on Amstrad PCW and
  Spectrum +3.
* README file. For more information, turn on the CPC, insert
  the game disc and enter LOAD"README" and LIST.

                             xiii

AMSTRAD PCW DISC FEATURES
-------------------------

* Black-and-white pictures. To see more pictures, wait until
  the game has loaded and is waiting for you to type
  something - then flip the disc over.
* Picture cache (avoiding unnecessary disc loads).
* Recall and editing of previous commands, by cursor keys
  and DELETE.
* RAM SAVE/RESTORE and UNDO.
* The Amstrad PCW disc also works on Amstrad CPC and
  Spectrum +3.
* README file. For more information, boot the PCW with
  CP/M+ as usual, then insert the game disc and enter TYPE
  README.TXT

ATARI ST FEATURES
-----------------

* Pictures on colour and black-and-white displays (use the
  mouse, with its left button pressed, to slide the picture up
  and down).
* Picture cache (avoiding unnecessary disc loads).
* Recall and editing of previous commands, by cursor keys
  and Backspace.
* RAM SAVE/RESTORE and UNDO (several times in succession).
* Variable text size, (experiment by pressing F1 or F2, then
  typing a few characters). This will help television users.
* Demonstration game. If you would like a continuous
  demonstration of Lancelot, perhaps for use in a shop, start
  the game and WAIT UNTIL THE FIRST PICTURE HAS
  FINISHED LOADING and the game is waiting for a
  command. If necessary, press the spacebar a couple of times
  so the game can print the rest of its start-up message and
  reach the first prompt, ">" or "What now?". Only then
  should you press Alternate+R.
* An interpreter which can be used with Knight Orc and
  Gnome Ranger, letting them benefit from new features.
  Copy the previous game to a new disc, then copy
  GAME.PRG from the Lancelot disc, replacing the old ver-
  sion. Hey presto! Variable text size and so on.
* README file. For more information, start the ST with a disc
  which does not auto-boot (for instance a blank disc). Then

                             xiv

  insert the game disc and double click on its icon and
  README.TXT.

BBC DISC FEATURES
-----------------

* Colour pictures on BBC Masters, B+ with additional side-
  ways ram, or BBC B with both shadow and sideways ram.
  (Smaller BBC Micros show a Mode 7 text-only display -
  such as the BBC B with just sideways or shadow ram). On
  BBC Masters you can use the cursor keys, with Shift
  pressed, to slide the picture up and down. To see more
  pictures, wait until the game has loaded and is waiting for
  you to type something - then flip the disc over.
* Recall and editing of previous commands, on BBC Micros
  big enough to show pictures, by cursor keys, Delete and
  Copy ("forward delete").
* Variable text size, on BBC Micros big enough to show pic-
  tures; press F0 and F1 to select between 40 and 80 column
  text.
* RAM SAVE/RESTORE and UNDO on big BBC Micros.
* Picture cache on very big BBC Micros (avoiding unnecess-
  ary disc loads).
* README file. For more information, turn on the BBC
  Micro, insert the game disc and enter *TYPE "README"

COMMODORE 64/128 DISC FEATURES
------------------------------

* Colour pictures (use the cursor keys to slide the picture up
  and down). To see more pictures, wait until the game has
  loaded and is waiting for you to type something - then flip
  the disc over.
* RAM SAVE/RESTORE and UNDO.
* Fast performance when the pictures are turned off; partly
  because loading from disc takes a little while (even though
  we use a good turbo) and partly because not needing to
  maintain a moveable split screen (between the picture and
  text) frees more processing power.

IBM PC FEATURES
---------------

* Pictures in MGA and EGA modes. (The disc just contains
  one set of pictures and converts them on output when MGA
  is chosen).

                              xv

* Picture cache (avoiding unnecessary disc loads) 
* Recall and editing of previous commands, by cursor keys
  and Backspace.
* RAM SAVE/RESTORE and UNDO (on machines with more
  than 128K).
* Demonstration game. If you would like a continuous
  demonstration of Lancelot, perhaps for use in a shop, start
  the game by entering MENU and waiting for it to load.
  Then, before doing anything else, press ALT+R. Continue
  by choosing a display format as usual.
* An interpreter which can be used with Knight Orc and
  Gnome Ranger, letting them benefit from new features.
  Copy the previous game to a new disc, then copy AINT.EXE,
  MENU.EXE and MENU.TXT from the Lancelot disc,
  replacing the old versions.
* README file. For more information, boot the PC from its
  normal operating system disc, then insert the game disc and
  enter TYPE README.TXT.

MAC FEATURES
------------

* Black-and-white pictures (use the mouse, with its button
  pressed, to slide the picture up and down).
* Recall and editing of previous commands, by cursor keys
  and Delete.
* RAM SAVE/RESTORE and UNDO (several times in succession).

SPECTRUM +3 DISC FEATURES
-------------------------

* Black and white pictures, tailored for TV display (use the
  cursor keys to slide the picture up and down). To see more
  pictures, wait until the game has loaded and is waiting for
  you to type something - then flip the disc over.
* Recall and editing of previous commands, by cursor keys
  with Symb Shift pressed, and Delete.
* RAM SAVE/RESTORE and UNDO (several times in succession).
* The Spectrum +3 disc also works on the Amstrad CPC and
  PCWs.
* README file. For more information, turn on the Spectrum
  +3, insert the game disc, select +3 Basic and enter LOAD
  "READ.ME".

                             xvi

-------------------------------------------------------------
Copyright
-------------------------------------------------------------

Please remember that Lancelot is protected by copyright and
took a lot of research, time and trouble to produce, so make no
more than one copy, for your own use, to keep only as long as
you have the original game. Before copying any game you
must check the copyright conditions in its documentation.

-------------------------------------------------------------
Background
-------------------------------------------------------------

The legends of King Arthur and the Knights of the Round
Table are known to all, but it is a sad fact that most modern
interpretations, whether games, films or stories, seem to owe
nothing to the original tales.
  You have surely seen the programs with Arthurian titles that,
for example, turn out to involve something called "Merlin"
jumping from platform to platform, while zapping orcs with
fireball spells.
  Well, we got tired of waiting for someone else to do a proper
job, so here's our faithful interpretation of the Arthurian saga.
And, putting this on one side, I think it's our best game to date.
I hope you enjoy it.

Lancelot is based on Sir Thomas Malory's Le Morte D'Arthur,
published by William Caxton in 1485, as one of the first books
to use modern printing.
  Le Morte D'Arthur was an amalgamation of Arthurian
stories of that time. It omits a few of the tales, and anyone who
thinks bugs are a modern invention should consider its mul-
tiple Elaines and wounded kings, but it is the main English
source on King Arthur and an undoubted literary classic.
  (If you want to read the full Arthurian legends yourself,
however, I recommend The Once and Future King by T.H
White. It's a fairly free adaptation, but infinitely more
readable).
  A much shorter version of the Arthurian legends is enclosed,
as background to the game. We have tried, in both this and the
game, to use modern English while keeping some of the lin-
guistic flavour of Malory's original.
  The adventure follows Malory's story, from the foundation
of the Round Table to its finest hour, the finding of the Holy
Grail. Lancelot was chosen as the hero because, while Arthur

                             xvii

remains passively at court, Lancelot rides out to earn the title of
Best Knight in the World. He rescues damosels and captive
knights, and goes on to become the only first-generation
Round Table knight to see the Holy Grail.
  The game starts with a new scene in which Lancelot meets
Arthur. After this, it follows Malory pretty faithfully, but omits
the detailed jousting results and obscure feuds, which must
have numbed generations of English students. It also ascribes
to Lancelot a few adventures which originally starred the likes
of Gawain or Tristram. Apart from this, however, Lancelot
sticks closely to the book.
  You don't get showy magic or excessive violence. What you
do get is a game which recreates the Arthurian world, with
both traditional adventure puzzles and some of the ethical
problems involved in becoming a parfait knight.

The best of the books consulted were:
Le Morte D'Arthur (two volumes)
                          Malory, Penguin, ISBN 0-14-043043-1
Sir Gawain and the Green Knight...  Anon/Brian Stone, Penguin
The Once and Future King
           T.H. White, Flamingo (Fontana), ISBN 0-00-654010-4
The Plain Man's Guide to Ethics
         William Barclay, Fount (Collins), ISBN 0-00-626836-6

The most disappointing:
The Book of Merlin
            T.H. White, Flamingo(Fontana), ISBN 0-00-654045-7
The Mists of Avalon
                   Marion Bradley, Sphere, ISBN 0-7221-1957-7

And the most peculiar:
The Cauldron and the Grail
  Nick Mann, Annenterprise of Glastonbury, ISBN 0-9510682-0-2

The historical Arthur seems to be a mythologised composite of
war leaders from southwest England and Wales, dating
between the slow collapse of Roman Britain, and the Saxon
influx from the east. But we cannot recommend any of the
over-inflated books on the subject. By far the best works are
tourist guides to individual sites, such as:

Arthurian Sites in the West
   Radford and Swanton, Exeter University, ISBN 0-85989-026-0

                            xviii

The Birth
of a King

IN the days when Uther Pendragon was King of all
England, the mighty Duke of Tintagel stood out against
him and for a long time held war against the king.
  After many battles, Uther sent for the Duke, that they might
talk of peace. But he also charged him to bring his wife,
Igraine, for Uther had heard that she was most fair. And when
the Duke and his wife were with Uther, the king declared his
love to her. Igraine was much distressed and warned the Duke
her husband that they should flee, for the king surely intended
her dishonour.
  After they had departed secretly, Uther was wonderly wroth,
both for pure anger and great love of fair Igraine.
  The Duke heard warning of this, and anon he made
provision for a long siege. He set Igraine in Tintagel Castle, the
which he strongly fortified, while he set out for Castle Terrabil.
Ere long, Uther's pavilions and knights surrounded Terrabil
and a bitter battle began.
  But Uther was sick with his love, and remained listless in his
tent, so that his knights were greatly worried. In hope of
finding a cure for the king, one of his men set out to seek
Merlin, a wizard well renowned for his knowledge of ancient
crafts and remedies. And Merlin said that he would help Uther,
if Uther would be sworn to reward Merlin in his turn. The

                              1

noble knight assented that Merlin should have whatever he
desired if he could make Uther whole again.
  Merlin rode to Uther's pavilion, where he told the king that
Uther might spend the night with Igraine, for by Merlin's
magic, he would appear to her in the likeness of her husband.
In return, Uther must deliver any child, born of their union, for
the magician to raise.
  Uther could not hold his patience, and rode out with his
party for Tintagel at once. The Duke espied Uther's knights
riding hard, as if in retreat, and he left his Terrabil fortress to
pursue in all haste. On the field, he met with Uther's remaining
men, and was himself slain ere the king came to the castle of
Tintagel. And so, as Uther lay with Igraine, she was already a
widow.
  Igraine thought her lover that night was her husband; but
when she heard tell of the Duke's death she marvelled who that
knight who lay with her might be. Even when she assented
unto marriage with Uther, to unite their two houses, he did not
tell her.
  And when the child was born, Merlin came, as he had told
Uther he would, to take the baby away, reassuring the father he
would be well-nourished.
  But Uther was not able to spend a long and happy life with
Igraine. Within two years he had fallen sick of a great malady
and died, to Igraine's great sorrow, for she had learned to love
him.
  The rule of the kingdom fell into jeopardy, for there was no
known heir. Many lords made claim to the throne, and fought
bitterly for the right to reign, but none could take the kingdom
by just cause.

The Sword in the Stone

AFTER years of great feuding, Merlin went to the
Archbishop of Canterbury and counselled him that he
would find the right-born king. All the lords of the
realm and all the gentlemen of arms were summoned to
London for a New Year's Day tournament, when the new ruler
would be revealed.
  Sir Ector, his son Kay and his adopted son Arthur were
among those who rode to London for the jousting, Kay making
great excitement, for he was to be made a knight at the tourna-

                              2

ment. Yet, as they rode to the jousts-ward, Kay discovered with
dismay that he had lost his sword, for he had left it at their
lodging. He prayed young Arthur to run back to collect it.
  Arthur found the inn empty and locked; everyone had
already left to see the tournament. Trudging dolefully back to
his father and brother, he went through a churchyard, where
near the high altar, he espied, to his joy, a sword. It was stuck
through an anvil, set upon a wide marble stone, and glittered in
the winter sunlight.
  "I will take that sword", Arthur decided. "My brother Sir
Kay shall not be without a sword today of all days". He
grasped it firmly and found that it came easily out of the anvil.
Hurrying after his party, he never noticed the words that were
written in gold about the sword.
  But when Arthur delivered the sword to Kay, his brother
turned quite pale. For Kay too had seen the sword in the stone
in the churchyard, but he had also seen what Arthur had not,
the lettering around it, which read, "WHO SO PULLETH OUT
THIS SWORD OF THIS STONE AND ANVIL, IS RIGHTWISE
KING BORN OF ALL ENGLAND".
  A small smile appeared on Kay's face as he took the sword
from Arthur, and so he rode to find Sir Ector. "Look, father",
he cried. "I have the sword from the stone. I must now be King
of all England."
  Sir Ector was no fool. He took both Kay and Arthur back to
the churchyard, and he made Kay swear upon a book how he
had come by the sword.
  Kay faltered. "My brother Arthur brought it to me", he said.
Ector turned to his adopted son, and Arthur explained how he
had taken it. Then Ector replaced the sword in the anvil and
told Arthur to pull it out again.
  "There is no great skill to it", said Arthur airily, and lifted it
smoothly and cleanly out of the anvil.
  Then Ector and Kay both tried pulling the sword from the
stone for themselves, with all their might, but it would not
move. When the two elder men learned full well that the sword
would give only for Arthur, they both knelt down to the earth
before him.
  Arthur was greatly dismayed. "My own father and brother!"
he exclaimed. "Why do ye kneel before me?"
  "Nay, Arthur, I am not your father, nor of your blood", said
Sir Ector gently, and for the first time he told him how Merlin

                              3

had delivered him to Sir Ector as a newborn baby, and charged
him to nourish Arthur as his own.
  At Pentecost, young Arthur was crowned at Carleon and
took on the heavy duties of King of all England.

Excalibur

THE early years of Arthur's reign were not easy. Many
lords and kings had no joy of him because of his youth
and lowly upbringing and he spent much time in
bloody battles, defending his right to the throne. Merlin was
ever nearby to help him when he was on the brink of defeat,
and after long years, Arthur finally vanquished most of the
enemy lords.
  Arthur fathered two children, Borre and Mordred, while still
a young man. Mordred's mother was Margawse, wife of King
Lot of Orkney and the daughter of Igraine and the Duke of
Tintagel. Though none could know but Merlin, this meant she
was Arthur's half-sister, for which Merlin blamed the king.
  "God will not forgive your foul deed", the soothsayer
warned. "You have lain by your sister and on her ye have
gotten a child, born on May day, that shall destroy you and all
the knights of your realm."
  Sore afraid at Merlin's words, Arthur sent for all the children
born on May day, and he set them adrift in a ship. The ship was
wrecked and the most part of the children perished, but Mor-
dred was washed up alive on a beach, and raised by a good
man.
  Arthur's battles were long and bloody and oft there was
danger that he might be slain, so Merlin thought that Arthur
should have his own special sword. He took Arthur on a
journey to a wide and still lake, and, in the middle of the
waters, an arm, clothed in rich samite silk, rose from the water.
The hand was clasping a fair sword.
  "This is the sword that shall be yours", Merlin told Arthur.
"The Lady of the Lake will come to you, and ye must speak fair
to her to get the sword. And anon indeed the Lady told Arthur
to row out in a barge to the centre of the lake to take the sword
and its scabbard.
  When he returned to the shore, he looked on his new sword
and liked it passing well. Merlin asked him, "Which do you
like better - the sword or the scabbard?"

                              4

  Arthur considered. "The sword", he replied.
  Merlin looked at him with impatience. "Ye are still so
unwise", he said with annoyance. "The scabbard is worth ten
of the sword. While ye have the scabbard with ye, ye will never
lose blood however sorely wounded ye may be."

Guenever

WHEN Arthur first saw Guenever, daughter of King
Leodegrance of Camelerd, he knew straightway that he
wished to marry her. Arthur thought her the most val-
iant and fairest lady living.
  But, as ever in these early years of his reign, he asked for the
counsel of Merlin, for he was still for the most part ruled much
by the magician's words.
  "In beauty and fairness she is above all women", Merlin
assented. "But if your heart was not set, I could find you a
damosel of great beauty and goodness, who would certainly
please you. But when a man's heart is set, and there is nought
that can make him return."
  Merlin further advised the king against taking Guenever as
his wife, "I warn you that she will be loved by Lancelot du
Lake, and she will love him back."
  But Arthur's mind was set fast on his choice, and so anon
Merlin went forth to King Leodegrance to tell him that King
Arthur wanted his daughter for his wife.

                              5

  Leodegrance, to be sure, was overjoyed. "That is the best
tidings that ever I heard", he cried. "And I shall send Arthur a
gift, which might please him more than lands, for he has lands
enough. I shall give him the Table Round, which was given to
me by Uther Pendragon. The Table will seat a hundred and
fifty knights when it is full, and I will myself send a hundred
good knights."
  Leodegrance was right. The gift of a hundred knights and the
Table Round pleased Arthur far greater than land, and he sent
out Merlin to find fifty accomplished knights to complete the
number, the while he made preparations for the most regal
wedding he could devise. But Merlin could only find forty
eight knights of enough prowess to grace the Table Round, and
so there were two empty seats.
  Then Merlin, by his magic craft, made each of the names of
the knights appear in gold lettering in their places at the table,
and in just two places was there no name.
  As the knights came to Camelot, where the King was wedded
unto Guenever, Arthur set out them their duties as Knights of
the Table Round. He charged them never to commit treason or
murder, never to be cruel, never to enter into battle for a
wrongful reason whatsoever the reward, but ever to grant
mercy when it was asked for, and ever to help ladies, whether
gentlewomen or damosels, whenever succour was needed.
And every Knight was sworn to this oath and every year at
Pentecost they affirmed it again.

Merlin and Nimue

FOR all that he was a magician and a soothsayer, Merlin
fell in love with one of the ladies of the lake, called
Nimue. He became besotted upon her and could not
bear to be away from her, and she kept in his company until he
had taught her all manner of things she desired to know of his
magic crafts.
  Merlin also knew that despite all his magic, he would not
live long in the earthly world, and ere he was put in the ground
he told Arthur many prophecies that would befall the young
king. He warned him to keep always his sword and scabbard
with him, and he told him of the end of his reign and of the last
days of the Table Round.
  Soon afterward Nimue departed from the court, and Merlin

                              6

went with her. He followed her wheresoever she went, and
within a while Nimue began to be weary of him.
  Then one day Merlin showed her a rock, inside which were
marvels wrought by enchantment. Nimue tricked Merlin by
subtlety and made him go underneath the rock, to tell her of
the marvels, and then, by use of the crafts which he had taught
her, she enclosed the rock.
  Merlin was not harmed, and spoke happily enough to pass-
ing knights, but, no matter what charms Merlin practised to
assay to open up the rock, he remained trapped.

Sir Lancelot du Lake

AS King Arthur's reign drew on, and the deeds of the
Knights of the Table Round became ever more renow-
ned throughout the land, so many knights came to the
tournaments and jousts. Some knights who came oft improved
their prowess so that they surpassed most of their fellows, but
none more so than Lancelot du Lake. Never in any of his fights
was he beaten, unless it were by trickery, and he was the
knight who was admired most of all by the people after Arthur.
And because of his excellence, Queen Guenever favoured him
above all other knights, and he too favoured her, and many of
his great knightly deeds were done for love of Guenever.
  Sir Lancelot was riding in Corbin, when he saw the fairest
tower he had ever seen. Inside was a lady, enchanted to remain
in scalding water until the best knight in the world should take

                              7

her hand. Lancelot rescued her and discovered her name was
Elaine; she thanked him and he thought she was the fairest lady
in the world, apart from Guenever.
  Lancelot slew a fiendly dragon nearby, then they rode to
Carbonek, castle of Elaine's father, King Pelles.
  At the celebratory feast, a damosel came into the hall, car-
rying a golden vessel, which shone richly with a pure and
dazzling light. King Pelles knelt in front of the vessel, and
prayed devoutly before it, and all the company did the same
after him. Lancelot marvelled much at this and asked wonder-
ingly what this apparition meant.
  "This vessel is the richest thing that any living man could
have", replied Pelles. Ye must know is the Holy Grail, that was
blessed by Our Lord at the Last Supper." And he left Lancelot
to ponder on this marvel. Lancelot found that after the appear-
ance of the Grail that all the wounds and bruises he had
suffered in his joust had healed and that his flesh was smooth
and new, and he determined to see the Grail once more before
he died.
  King Pelles knew it was ordained that Elaine should conce-
ive a child by Lancelot; that the child should be named Gal-
ahad; that he would become the best of all knights, surpassing
even his father; and that he would be worthy of the Holy Grail.
Yet how could it be done, fair though Elaine was, when every
man knew that Lancelot kept himself only for love of the
Queen Guenever?
  Then Dame Brisen, one of the greatest enchantresses that
lived at the time, came unto Pelles, and told him that she could
work this thing by using her crafts.
  Lancelot was given wine, the which had Brisen infused with
potion to make him blinded with lust, and when he was taken
unto Elaine's chamber, he thought that she was Guenever, and
lay with her until morning.
  Elaine knew well that the child she carried from that night
was born to be the noblest knight in the world, and when he
was born, she christened him Galahad, and kept him well and
nourished him. But Lancelot was shamed by the trickery, and
left the castle that same morning to continue his travels.
  Some months after, Arthur decreed that a feast be held.
  Elaine deemed it right that she should attend the feast and
bring the baby Galahad with her. She came with her servant
Dame Brisen, and a retinue of twenty knights, and was so

                              8

richly attired that all of Camelot agreed she was the fairest lady
ever seen in that court. All, that is, save Lancelot, for fear of
Guenever's fury.
  Elaine was heavy of heart that Lancelot would not speak
kindly to her, nor look at her, and went unto Brisen for advice.
The enchantress assented to work her special powers so that
Elaine might lie again with Lancelot that night.
  When the court had retired, Guenever commanded Elaine to
sleep in a chamber near her own, and she bade Lancelot to
come unto her in the night. "Or else I am sure", chided
Guenever, "ye will go to your lady Elaine's bed, for have you
not gat a son of her?"
  But Brisen's enchantments were stronger than Lancelot's
promises, and she came to Lancelot in the likeness of one of
Guenever's maidens, and led him unto Elaine's chamber
instead of Guenever's. Lancelot thought that it was Guenever
he held in his arms, for so Brisen had devised it.
  Then Guenever sent her servant to summon Lancelot to her,
but the servant came to the Queen and said that she had found
Lancelot's bed cold and empty. The Queen went nigh out of
her wits with wondering where he was. She was not long in
doubt, for Lancelot had the habit of talking in his sleep, and
anon through the walls, she could hear his voice in Elaine's
room.
  Then was Guenever nigh mad with anger and with pain. She
knew not what to do, but then she coughed so loudly that
Lancelot awoke, and he heard her cough, and wist that it was
Guenever. Then he knew too that he lay not with his queen as
he had thought and ran out of Elaine's chamber, only to meet a
white-faced Guenever in the passageway.
  "Thou false traitor knight!" she cried. "Never more wilt thou
abide in my court; never will I let thee come into my sight
again!"
  Lancelot could not bear the anger of her words and, filled
with shame and the loss of his love, he leapt from the castle
window.
  Lancelot ran mad in the forests, sometimes tended by her-
mits and village folk, more often living off berries and strange
plants. Only after many years did he return to King Arthur's
court.

                              9

The Coming of the Holy Grail

EACH year, the Knights of the Table Round came unto
Camelot for the high feast of Pentecost, to relate their
deeds and the marvels they had seen. But still the Table
was not complete, for the last place, the Seige Perilous, was not
filled.
  Then one year the knights had found, according to the
custom, that their names were written about the Table Round
in gold lettering, but this time there were new words written
above the empty Siege Perilous. "FOUR HUNDRED WINTERS
AND FOUR AND FIFTY ACCOMPLISHED AFTER THE PAS-
SION OF OUR LORD JESU CHRIST OUGHT THIS SIEGE TO
BE FULFILLED".
  "It seemeth me", said Sir Lancelot who had accounted the
time between the birth of Christ unto that day itself, "This siege
ought to be fulfilled this very day, for this is the feast of
Pentecost after the four hundred and four and fifty year." And
the other knights agreed, and they ordained to cover the Siege
Perilous with a silken cloth, so that the letters could not be seen
until the rightful knight came unto the Table.
  As they set themselves in their own places at the table the
next night to be served their feast, an old man accompanied by
a young fresh-faced knight, quite unarmed, save for an empty
scabbard at his waist, came unto the hall at Camelot.
  And as the other knights set all eyes upon the two, the elderly
one led the young boy right up to the Table Round, and anon
he led him to the Siege Perilous, where beside sat Sir Lancelot.
The old man lifted up the silken cloth, which showed that the
words inscribed in gold had changed again. Now it read:
"THIS IS THE SIEGE OF GALAHAD THE HAUT PRINCE".
  The old knight set his young charge surely in that seat, and
departed, so that the boy was in the centre of the others' looks.
Many marvelled that one so young did dare sit in that siege, but
Lancelot knew him as his own son, and his heart swelled up
with pride.
  The next day, King Arthur took Galahad to a lake near
Camelot, where the court had found a sword set into a stone in
a lake. This sword was inscribed with lettering, which read
that only the best knight in the world could pull the sword
clear.
  Now, many thought that this knight must surely be Sir

                              10

Lancelot, but Lancelot had remembered the sins of his love for
the Queen, and had said he was unworthy to try the sword. Sir
Gawain and Sir Percival were both knights of great renown,
but when they tried to lift the sword, it would not move. Now
Arthur was sure that Galahad was the rightful owner of the
sword, and so it was, for Galahad lifted it cleanly and easily,
and it fitted perfectly into his empty scabbard.
  Then Arthur organised a great jousting tournament, that
Galahad might test his skill against the other knights. And
Galahad acquitted himself superbly, and many good knights of
the Table Round were unhorsed by the young man, save two
whom he did not fight, Lancelot and Sir Percival.
  That evening the knights were again come unto the hall in
Camelot for their supper, every man in his place at the Table
Round, and this time there were no empty seats. And scarcely
had they sat down, when there was a great cracking and a
crying of thunder that shook the very walls of Camelot, and in
the midst of this clamour a great burst of light flooded into the
hall, like a sunbeam that was seven times clearer than daylight.
Then all the knights felt themselves to be filled with the grace
of the Holy Ghost. They beheld one another to be fairer than
ever they were before, and they were struck dumb by the
brilliance of the light.
  Then came into the hall a golden centre to this light, and it
was the Holy Grail, covered in a cloth of white samite, so that
none could see the vessel underneath. And with the Grail came
all manner of meat and drink that the knights loved best.
  As the Holy Grail crossed over the length of the hall it
vanished as suddenly as it had come, and in the sudden empti-
ness of the hall after its passing, the knights all burst into voice
at once.
  Sir Gawain, ever impetuous, leapt to his feet and spoke unto
the company. "One thing has beguiled us this evening", he
cried. "We could not see the Holy Grail because it was so
preciously covered. And I will vow here and now, that tomor-
row without delay, I will go out in quest of the Holy Grail. I
wil labour for a year and a day, or longer if needs be, and I
shall not rest until I have seen the Grail more openly than it has
been seen here."
  The other knights were greatly inspired by this and ere
Gawain had sat down, each of them had risen and made vows
such as he had done. And as they were rejoicing and making

                              11

great plans for their quest, only Arthur was still and silent.
  For Arthur remembered the prophecies and teaching of the
soothsayer Merlin, and he knew that many of his knights
would never return, and the Table Round would never be
restored.

The Quest for the Holy Grail

THE quest for the Holy Grail continued for many years,
and all the knights who set out to seek the Holy vessel
had many marvellous adventures, but none more than
Sir Lancelot who was to see the Grail at Castle Carbonek, or
Galahad whose destiny was to fulfil the quest.
  Lancelot rode hard for several days, until he came unto an
old chapel, where he thought to find himself rest. He tried to
enter therein, but could only reach the altar, richly arrayed in
silk and with six great candles set into a fair silver candlestick.
He could find no entry to the chapel itself and at last, tired and
dismayed, laid himself to sleep on his shield at a stony cross
outside.
  He was half wakened some time after when two fair white
palfreys rode up to the cross. The palfreys bore a litter which
carried a sick knight, that moaned in pain for the Holy Grail to
come to heal him.
  Lancelot stirred, still half asleep, for it seemed to him that he
could not rise into wakefulness, and he espied the candlestick
from the altar carry itself, as if floating, unto the cross. It was

                              12

followed by a silver table, and the shining holy vessel of the
Holy Grail, although Lancelot could see none that was bearing
it aloft. He heard the sick knight sit up and welcome the Holy
Grail, and he saw kneel down to the ground to touch the vessel
and kiss it. Then the knight rose up again whole and healed.
The Holy Grail remained at the cross for a long while before it
glided back into the chapel, and yet still had Lancelot no power
to follow it.
  After some hours Lancelot woke fully. He recalled how the
sick knight had been healed, but it was as though it were all a
dream. And even as he thought this, a voice came to him, and
told him to withdraw from the holy place in which he had been
sleeping, for he was unworthy.
  Lancelot was sore unhappy and wept at these words, and the
more unhappy still when he discovered that his horse and
helm and sword had been taken away by the healed knight, yet
he knew well the message. "My sin and wickedness have
brought me unto great dishonour. When I sought worldly
adventures and worldly desires, I achieved them. Now I have
taken up a holy adventure and my old sin has come back to
shame me, so that I have no power when holy blood appears
before me."
  With much sorrow, Lancelot departed from the cross on foot
and went unto a hermitage where the hermit would hear his
confession. The hermit counselled Lancelot that his shame in
God's eyes had to do with his sinful love for Guenever, and that
he should forswear his lust for her. And Lancelot fully
repented of his earthly sins, and with the hermit's blessing set
out to start his quest afresh.
  After many months, Lancelot came unto the water of Mor-
taise, where he laid down to rest and a vision came to him in
his sleep, which told him to enter the first ship that he could
find. Lancelot arose and went to the strand where he found a
ship without either sail or oar and he entered and a great
feeling of peace and joy overwhelmed him, and he remained
with the ship for over a month.
  Then one day, somewhat weary of the small ship, he was
sitting on the shore when he heard a thundering of hooves, and
a most seemly looking knight on a fair horse galloped up to the
shore. He dismounted and taking his saddle and bridle with
him, went straight into the ship.
  Lancelot followed, curious about this self-assured young

                              13

man, and made himself known to the young man, whereupon
the knight revealed that he was Sir Galahad, Lancelot's own
son. There was much rejoicing between them as the two
embraced, and told each other of their adventures.
  Galahad had ridden from Camelot into strange lands which
he knew not. Many adventures befell him and always he was
successful in his endeavors and gained much in knightly
experience. He had defeated many knights in fair combat, he
had given support to the defenders in a great siege at a castle,
and with their comrades Sir Bors and Sir Percival, he had been
set adrift to sea in a boat which had beached them in the
marshes of Scotland, there to do battle with many knights who
had challenged them.
  Lancelot made great joy to hear his tales. His own quest had
been tortuous and hard, with little success and he took much
pride in his son. For a full six months, Lancelot and Galahad
voyaged together in that boat, encountering many perilous
adventures.
  But never did they come near the Holy Grail, the true nature
of their quest and so Galahad then left the ship to seek the
vessel as he was ordained.
  Then did Sir Lancelot make much sorrow, for he was alone
and downhearted, but he prayed daily to God that he might
still see some tidings of the Holy Grail. The ship carried him
over the sea, he knew not whereto, but trusted it to steer him
safely.
  After a month at sea, the ship beached at midnight beside a
fine castle. A postern opened out towards the sea and a voice
bade Lancelot to enter in. Anon, Lancelot armed himself and
went to the gate, for here, so he thought, might at last be his
adventure.
  As he neared the castle, Lancelot saw two lions on guard. He
drew his sword, but it was smitten from his hand and a voice
chided his evil faith, that he put more trust in weapons than in
his Maker.
  He entered the castle without further challenge, but inside he
could find no door or gate which would open. But behind one
door he could hear sweet and reverent singing, and he knew
full well that the Holy Grail was in that room. Lancelot fell to
his knees and prayed to God to show him at least some part of
the Grail.
  He looked up from his prayers and was filled with awe to see

                              14

the chamber door swing slowly open. From inside shone out a
great light, that was the clearest, purest light Lancelot had ever
seen.
  Lancelot looked up and into the chamber, and there was the
silver table, and the Holy Grail covered in red samite and all
the ornaments of an altar, and a priest who seemed to celebrate
mass. Then Lancelot could not bear to stay outside, and taking
a deep breath, he strode into the room where the Grail was.
  As Lancelot reached out to touch the Grail, a scorching wind
threw him down. His body would not move, and then he felt
hands all about him, that carried him out of the room and left
him in the passageway.
  The next morning the people of the castle found Lancelot's
body outside the chamber door. He was taken to a bedcham-
ber, where he lay without stirring.
  Lancelot awoke on the twenty fifth day and learned that he
had achieved as much of the Holy Grail as he would ever see,
and Lancelot understood and thanked God for that which he
had been allowed.
  Elsewhere, Galahad, since departing from the ship, had
many further adventures before he met again with Sir Percival
and Sir Bors. The three of them then rode together until they
came to the Castle Carbonek. When they entered within, King
Pelles was full glad to see them, for he knew that now the quest
for the Grail would be achieved.
  King Pelles, his son Eliazar and the three Grail knights sat
down to dinner, but before they could eat, a voice came to
them. "There are two among you that are not in the quest for
the Holy Grail, and therefore you both should depart."
  King Pelles stood up. The moment had come, and with a
single look at Galahad he and his son slipped away. Scarce had
they gone, when a man and four angels appeared before the
knights. The angels set the man down before a table of silver
and on the table the Holy Grail appeared. The man, who was
dressed as a bishop, set about the ritual of the celebrating of
mass. He kissed Galahad and bade Galahad kiss his fellow
knights, which he did and then the bishop vanished away.
  The three knights sat at the table in full dread of what might
next happen. They looked up and saw a man come out of the
holy vessel, a man with open wounds bleeding freely, as did
those of Jesus Christ, and he offered the holy vessel to Galahad.
Galahad knelt and received his Saviour, and Our Lord then

                              15

told Galahad that he must depart with Bors and Percival the
next morning to the sea, where he would find a ship ready and
waiting for him.
  On the morrow, the three knights set off, and after three days
came to a rivage where they found a ship waiting for them. On
board the ship they found a table of silver and the Holy Grail
covered in a cloth of red samite. The three knelt down and
prayed with much reverence.
  The ship took them across the water to the city of Sarras.
They disembarked and taking the table of silver went into the
city, where they remained for a full twelve months. On that day
at the year's end, the man in the likeness of a bishop came to
Galahad and Bors and Percival and he had the Holy Grail with
him. They celebrated mass, and the man revealed himself to
the knights as Joseph, son of Joseph of Arimathea, and now
Galahad knew that his time on earth was near an end.
  Galahad kneeled before the table which held the Holy vessel
and made his prayers, and as he did so, his soul departed
quickly and quietly to Jesus Christ. The watching Percival and
Bors perceived a great multitude of angels take it up to heaven.
They saw too that a great hand came down and took the Vessel
and bore that up to heaven as well. And this was the last that
any earthly man saw of the Holy Grail.

The Death of Arthur

WHEN the Holy Grail had been achieved and that part of
the knights that still lived had come back unto the Table
Round, it seemed that the kingdom would be as great as
it had been before.
  But Sir Lancelot soon forgot his repentance and his vows of
the quest and soon he began to resort unto Queen Guenever
again, and truly the love that was between them was so great
that they spent many hours together privily.
  Arthur was told, but he wished only for peace, and would
not believe unless Sir Lancelot was taken with the deed. So
Agravain and Mordred, who hated Lancelot, lay in wait with
twelve knights and trapped him in the Queen's chamber.
  Though he had none armour, shield, sword nor spear,
Lancelot fought free and escaped, slaying all but Mordred, who
fled to the king. Guenever was sentenced to the fire, but Lance-
lot returned to rescue her and the twain left Logris for Lance-

                              16

lot's lands in France.
  For himself, Arthur desired only peace with Lancelot, for he
had loved him well in earlier days. But Arthur listened to the
counsel of Gawain, who was his nephew. And Gawain was
mad for vengeance, for Lancelot had slain his brethren in the
rescue.
  So Arthur took his army to France, leaving Sir Mordred to
rule England in his absence, for Sir Mordred was his own
natural son. And Arthur also put his wife Queen Guenever
under Mordred's governance.
  All the while Arthur was waging battle in France, Mordred
made mischief at home. He forged letters the which he said had
been sent from France, telling of Arthur's death in battle, and
was himself crowned at Canterbury.
  Next Mordred announced his plan to take Guenever as his
wife. The Queen was passing heavy, but she hid her heart and
agreed to the wedding. Mordred trusted Guenever well and
gave her leave to go to London, to buy all manner of things for
their wedding, whereupon she went straight to the Tower of
London and stocked it for a long siege.
  When Arthur heard of all these deeds, he summoned his
knights anon, and turned for England to be avenged upon
Mordred.
  The battle between them was bloody and vicious, but
Arthur's courage and his men's prowess prevailed and
although many good knights died, Arthur's armies were victo-
rious, though Sir Gawain was killed, and Mordred retreated to

                              17

Salisbury.
  The final battle was assigned for Salisbury on the day after
Trinity Sunday. The night before, Arthur could not sleep; his
heart was heavy with the decline of his kingdom and the
enmity of Lancelot. At last he fell to sleeping fitfully, and as he
slept he dreamed, and it seemed that the ghost of Gawain
appeared to him.
  "I have come to warn you of your death", said the Gawain of
Arthur's dream. "If ye fight with Mordred as ye both have
assigned, doubt not that ye will be slain. But within the month
Sir Lancelot and all his noble knights will come to England to
your rescue."
  When Arthur woke, he called his two most trusted knights
remaining, Sir Bedevere and Sir Lucan, and charged them to
make a truce with with Mordred. After some hours it was
agreed, and the two leaders arranged to affirm the treaty
betwixt their armies on Salisbury Field, and each should bring
just fourteen knights.
  Arthur and Mordred met, and were agreed. But it chanced
that an adder slithered out of a heath bush, and it bit one of the
knights on the foot. He drew his sword to kill the snake and the
knights of the armies, that had been so wary, saw the point of
the sword glinting in the sun and shouted, "Treachery!"
  Suddenly all was bugles blowing and trumpeting, and the
two hosts set upon each other in the most doleful battle of them
all, until both armies were destroyed. Arthur slew Mordred
and was himself wounded unto death.
  The king turned to Bedevere, last of his knights, "I have not
much time left", he said painfully. "Therefore, take my sword
Excalibur and throw it into yonder lake."
  Bedevere took the jewelled sword and went down to the
lakeside, but he hid it behind a tree. "I have done as you ask",
he told Arthur.
  "What saw thou at the lake?" asked Arthur. "Sire", replied
Bedevere, "I saw nothing but waves and the wind on the
water."
  "Then thou art lying", said Arthur heavily. "Go again, and
quickly, for thy tarrying puts my life in jeopardy."
  So Bedevere returned to the lake, and took up the sword and
after a moment's hesitation, hurled it as far into the depths as
he could. As he looked across the water, he saw a fair arm and
a hand rise out of the lake and it caught the sword as it fell.

                              18

  Arthur was satisfied. He charged Bedevere to take him down
to the lakeside, where a barge drew alongside the water's edge.
  In the little barge were a number of fair ladies, all with black
hoods, and when they saw King Arthur they wept and keened
greatly. Bedevere placed the weakened king into the barge,
where the ladies received him with great mourning.
  Arthur struggled to speak. "Bedevere, I must go into the vale
of Avalon to be healed of this wound." And Bedevere watched
the barge as it sailed away.

Epilogue

WHEN Queen Guenever heard that Arthur was slain, and
of the bloodshed on Salisbury Field, she stole away
quietly to a nunnery at Almesbury, and spent the rest of
her days in penance for her sins.
  As Gawain had prophesied in Arthur's vision, Lancelot
landed at Dover within a month, having heard of Mordred's
treachery.
  He was too late to save Arthur, but was determined to see his
lady Guenever again. For seven days he was on the road and
on the eighth he came to a nunnery. As he entered the cloister,
a nun dressed all in black and white saw him there and
swooned.
  They spoke together for a short time, and when Lancelot saw
that Guenever had taken to a life of penance, he decided that
this should be his destiny too. He took to his horse, weeping for
the loss of his love, and rode until he came to the hermitage at
Glastonbury, where he took on a monk's habit.
  Lancelot saw Guenever just once more, many years later.
One night, a vision charged him to ride with all haste to
Almesbury. This he did, but he was too late, Guenever was
dead but a half hour since.
  Without his lady, Lancelot would eat but little meat, nor
drink, until he sickened more and more and dwindled away.
Within six weeks he too was dead.
  Of King Arthur there is little more to be told. Some say he
rests in Avalon. Others say he is not dead at all, but sleeping
and will come again, with his Knights of the Table Round,
when the need is greatest.

                              19

                           MANDARIN
                           SOFTWARE
                Europa House, Adlington Park,
              Adlington, Macclesfield SK10 4NP.
