MARAUDER - HEWSON CONSULTANTS PLC

SCENARIO

In aeons past a cruel and despotic civilisation stole the Jewels of
Ozymandias and buried them deep beneath the multiple defences on the
planet Mergatron where they have remained pulsating strangely to the
present day.

Now with the crude civilisation long decayed and cracked the creaking
auto-defences of Mergatron swept low with the sands of time wind
thunderously into action at any hint of intrusion. And you, Captain C.
T. Cobra with your lone Marauder Battlecar are determined to retrieve
the Jewels from eternity's remorseless grip.

Airborne drones scream low overhead, their bouncing bombs pitching and
blasting. The desert sand kicks in your face as your Marauder skids
squat and ugly, its massive laser cannon crash-firing the defences to
oblivion. Spinning eyepods close you down and electro-hoverers spit
fire as seeker missiles shudder over the horizon. Wheels spin and
screech as your Battlecar heaves to confront the pursuers.

With energy levels dropping you scan desperately beyond the aliens.
You spot a distant weapon beacon. Can you battle to the beacon to
recharge your besieged craft?

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

Spectrum Cassette

48K ZX Spectrum, ZX Spectrum Plus or ZX Spectrum 128 with cassette
player, ZX Spectrum +2

You are advised to disconnect all hardware from the rear edge
connector with the exception of your joystick interface (it any). When
using a Sinclair Interface 2 or the ZX Spectrum +2 plug the
appropriate joystick into port 1. Unless using a ZX Spectrum +2
connect a cassette player to the computer in the usual manner. Rewind
the cassette it necessary, enter LOAD "" on the computer keyboard and
press the ENTER key. Press the Play key on the cassette player. The
game takes a few minutes to load.

Spectrum Disc

ZX Spectrum + 3

You are advised to disconnect all hardware from the rear edge
connector with the exception of your joystick interface (it any).
Place the disc in the drive and press the ENTER key.

Amstrad Cassette

Amstrad CPC 464

Amstrad CPC 664 or Amstrad CPC 6128 with cassette player and suitable
leads.

Amstrad CPC 664 and CPC 6128 users should connect a cassette player to
the computer and enter tape and press the ENTER key. Place the
cassette in the player, rewind if necessary and press the CTRL and
ENTER keys. Press the Play key on the cassette player and then any key
on the computer keyboard. The game takes a few minutes to load.

Amstrad Disc

Amstrad CPC 6128 or Amstrad CPC 664

Amstrad CPC 464 with disc drive

Amstrad CPC 464 users should connect a disc drive to the computer and
enter disc and press the ENTER key. Place the disc in the drive and
enter run "disc and press the ENTER or RETURN key. The game takes a
few seconds to load.

Commodore Cassette

Commodore 64 or Commodore 128 with suitable cassette player.

You are advised to disconnect all hardware from your computer. Connect
the cassette player to the computer, place the cassette in the player
and rewind if necessary. Press the SHIFT and RUN/STOP keys on the
computer keyboard and press the Play key on the cassette player. The
game takes a few minutes to load.

Commodore Disc

Commodore 64 or Commodore 128 with disc drive.

You are advised to disconnect all hardware from your computer. Connect
the disc drive to the computer and place the disc in the drive. Enter
LOAD "*",8,1 and press the RETURN key. The game takes a few seconds to
load.

CONTROLS

Commodore:      Joystick only
Spectrum:       Keyboard or Kempston, Sinclair or Cursor joystick
                (auto detected when FIRE pressed).
Amstrad:        Use either keys or joystick.

Title page:     Select music or sound FX - F1 (Commodore and Amstrad)
                or 1 (Spectrum)

During Game:    Joystick        Keys    Action

                Left    O       Move left
                Right   P       Move right
                Up      Q       Move up
                Down    A       Move down
                Fire    M       Fire laser cannon
                Space   Space   Activate smart bomb 

To pause:       RUN/STOP (Commodore) or ENTER (Spectrum and Amstrad)

To quit game:   Q (Commodore) or 0 (Spectrum)

GAMEPLAY

Manoeuvre your Battlecar through each zone destroying as many of the
defence systems as you can while avoiding the flak from the Atomic
disruptors and Molotov cocktails and dodging deadly winder missiles
and other destructive devices. You start the game with 3 smart bombs
which are activated by pressing the space bar.

Along the way you will come across the glowing defence beacons which
when shot will either help or hinder your progress depending on the
colour they are when hit. The colours are:

RED:    Extra smart bomb - destroys all ships on the screen
YELLOW: Shields - your ship is invincible for 10 seconds
CYAN:   Win a life
BLUE:   Control reversal
PURPLE: Lose a life
GREEN:  Laser jammed - you are defenceless for 10 seconds

At the end of each level the defences throw everything they've got at
you. It you survive you are transported to the next zone.

CREDITS

Game designed and programmed by Arcanum Software Developments.
Spectrum and Amstrad versions by Keith Burkhill, Graphics by Steve
Crow (Commodore) and Rory Green (Spectrum and Amstrad). Music by Barry
Leitch (Commodore) and Dave Rodgers (Spectrum and Amstrad).

(c) Hewson Consultants 1988.

The program and data are copyright and may not be reproduced in part
or in total by any means without the written permission of Hewson
Consultants Ltd. All rights reserved. No responsibility is accepted
for any errors.

Our policy is one of constant improvement. Therefore, we reserve the
right to modify any product without notice.

Hewson Consultants Ltd
56B Milton Park
Milton
Abingdon
Oxon
OX14 4RX
