Match Point - Psion 1984 (Under license from D&L Research)
----------------------------------------------------------

Recreate the excitement and tension of world class tennis in this dramatic
simulation that puts YOU on the centre court -  stretching to reach that
service, volleying crisply from the net and trying to out-think and
out-manoeuvre your powerful opponent.

Viewed from the commentary box in realistic 3D, you can either challenge your
computer opponent (or another human) in the Open Championship all the way to
the finals, but don't expect it to be easy! Alternatively, you can sit forward
on the edge of your seat and enjoy a stunning display of control and skill at
the exhibition match.

Suitable for joystick or keyboard control, you will need to master the
subtlety of the drop shot and lob as well as the controlled power of the
forehand drive and volley as part of your repertoire of shots - which should
include a range of recovery strokes!

However, sheer technical compentence is not enough.  Strategy and tactics are
vital aspects of tennis and you must develop your ball sense and awareness of
court positioning or pay the price.  Play an adventurous attacking game or
stay back and wear down your opponent - all the choices are yours, but don't
let your concentration slip.

Once you have mastered the skills and strategy of MATCH POINT, all that
remains is to take a deep breath and step out onto the Centre court in front
of the waiting crowd...

THE CHAMPIONSHIP

You are in the singles competition of the world's most famous tennis
championship, and have the option of picking up your racket at any time of
the following stages:

Quarter Finals: suitable for all levels of experience.

Semi-finals:    demands increased ball control, and faster reflexes.

Finals:         the peak of professional achievement.  Only the best should
                challenge the existing world champion, your computer opponent.

EXHIBITION MATCH

If you would rather sit back with your strawberries and cream and watch the
professionals exert themselves, then select the Exhibition Match option - but
be prepared to sit on the edge of your seat!  This match can be played by
middle, senior or top seeded tennis stars as you wish.

OPERATING INSTRUCTIONS

Player control can be achieved by Joystick or through the keyboard. Both the
Sinclair Interface II and Kempston Interface are supported, and an option to
select the keyboard input keys is included.

The direction and speed of the ball are determined by the position and motion
of the player and also the timing of the swing of the racket. For example,
extra speed can be imparted by moving forward while swinging, and striking the
ball at the end of the swing will have a different effect from striking it at
the beginning.  Changing from forehand to backhand is automatic when
appropriate, and can be forced by pressing the swing key/fire button once.

Pause a game with key H, or about with keys H and T together.

JOYSTICK CONTROL
move left    : LEFT            move down     : DOWN
move right   : RIGHT           swing racket  : FIRE
move up      : UP

KEYBOARD CONTROL

Single player against computer player:
move left    : I
move right   : P
move up      : Q
move down    : Z
swing racket : B  or any key to right of B.

Two Human players:

             Player one:       Player two:
move left    : S               J
move right   : D               K
move up      : 1 (One)         0 (Zero)
move down    : Q               O
swing racket : CAPS SHIFT      SPACE

These choices of keys can be redefined by selecting the "user defined keys"
option in the program.

SCORING
The scoring and rules adopted in this game are those of lawn tennis, and this
section is intended for those not familiar with the sport of tennis.

A MATCH is played over 3 or 5 SETS and the winner is the first to win either
2 or 3 Sets respectively.

A Set is made up of GAMES, the winner being the first to win 6 games and have
a clear lead of two games.  Should the score reach 6 games each, then a TIE-
BREAK is introduced to settle the set, except in the final set when play
continues till one player achieves a two game lead.

Games are made up of POINTS and are won by the first player to reach four
points with a clear lead of two points.  Play continues until one player gets
a lead of two points.  The scoring for Points goes as below:

zero points  - love
one point    - "15"
two points   - "30"
three points - "40"
four points  - "game"

If both players should reach "40" then the score is called "deuce" and the
winner of the next Point is said to have the "advantage".  Should he win the
subsequent Point then he wins the Game, being two clear points in the lead,
otherwise the score returns to "deuce".

Players have SERVICE for alternate Games throughout a Set, and alternate on
serving the first game of each set.  Players change ends at the end of every
odd numbered Game.

TIE-BREAKS consist of ordinary points, labelled 1,2,3...etc, and the winner is
the first to 7 points with a clear lead of 2 points, otherwise play continues
till a two point lead is achieved.


------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Typed in by Collie (collie@disko.co.uk)
