MOON ALERT
(Ocean)

Emergency! - Battle across the rugged lunar terrain from the wreckage
of your Space Fighter back to the lunar base. Scrolling landscape
covers over 300 screens and 100% machine code give the game its
authentic feel. Made in the U.K.


The program runs on the 48K ZX Spectrum. Make it back to the lunar
base in your MOON ROVA from the wreck of SPACE FIGHTER 7.

LOADING
Position the cassette in your tape recorder with the printed side
upwards and make sure that it is rewound to the beginning. Ensure that
the connection lead goes from the EAR socket on the recorder to the
EAR socket on the Spectrum and that the MIC socket is disconnected.
Type LOAD "" <ENTER> (note there is no space between the two quotes).
The " is obtained by pressing SYMBOL SHIFT and the P key simultaneously.
For further instructions consult the section on loading in your manual.
Now press PLAY on the recorder. The screen message should appear and 
the game will load automatically. If this does not happen try adjusting
the volume and tone controls until loading takes place. At the end of
the loading process follow the screen instructions.

PLAYING
Emergency! Moon Alert ... Space Fighter 7 is blasted by the alien
attackers; your hope for survival rests in reaching the moon-base from
the wreckage of your ship. Moon Rova appears undamaged and armed with
bilateral photon cannon and perpendicular jet boosters, you set out
across the rugged terrain; but the aliens have located your crash site
and are even now scouring the planet's surface.
Accelerate, brake, jump over canyons, blast rocks, zap the aliens and
above all keep a cool nerve ... one false move and it's all over!
Good Luck!

STATUS AND SCORING
On-screen scoring shows: current score, hi-score, and number of lives.
The game has a two player option, Hall of Fame and is compatible with
most joystick interfaces.

CONTROLS
Menu gives full options for control; please follow screen instructions
(game pause facility included). Scrolling landscape covers over 300
screens and points are scored as shown. [Not shown on inlay. JimG]


MOON ALERT
Developed by Ken Farmer and Jon Myers is one of many top selling games
from Ocean. Ask your local stockist for other titles in our range.
Produced by D.C. Ward
(c) 1984 Ocean Software Limited
