NOSFERATU THE VAMPYRE

Loading instructions:

Type LOAD"" and then press ENTER key.

Nightfall.  The deadly enchantment begins.
Will you live to see the dawn?

Fight a desperate battle to save your soul from the
vampyre's bloodlust.  Your enemy's power is subtle
and mysterious, his strength never-ending.  There is
only one way to bring Nosferatu's reign to an end.
There are three parts to your struggle to overcome the
Vampyre:

DRACULA'S CASTLE

You are Jonathan Harker, an innocent employee of
the estate agent Renfield.  Count Dracula wishes to
buy a house in your home town, Wismar.  You have
been sent to his castle to complete the sale, only to
discover the Count's true identity - he is a Vampyre!

Now you must act fast to protect yourself and the
inhabitants of Wismar from his power.  If Nosferatu
moves into the house he could soon take control of
the whole town and turn the innocent inhabitants
into vampyres!

You left the deeds to the house on the dining room
table, but they have disappeared.  You must find them
and escape as soon as you can.  Nosferatu is most
dangerous at night when the castle doors are locked.
You cannot escape until the light of day, when the
Vampyre lies low.  Meanwhile you may have to
contend with vampyre beasts, plagued rats, and
hallucinations created by Nosferatu for your
confusion.

You can find weapons and objects to aid your survival,
but fighting the evil beasts will sap your energy.

THE TOWN OF WISMAR

Here you control Jonathan Harker, Lucy Harker and
Van Helsing (Lucy's brother-in-law and admirer).
Choose 1, 2 or 3 to change character control.

Nosferatu has been drawn to Wismar by Lucy's special
power of attraction.  Unknown to Jonathan, her
husband, and Van Helsing, she is the only one who
can destroy him.  You must keep her alive In order to
win the game.

To ensure both Lucy's survival and the protection of
the Wismar townsfolk, the two men must destroy the
growing number of plagued rats and kill or keep at
bay those inhabitants who have already succumbed to
the Vampyre's power.  A population count is made
during the game to measure your success.

Remember, if Nosferatu still holds the deeds to the
house, he will have a sate base from which to operate
his blood-hunting, and will be extremely powerful.  If
you managed to retrieve the deeds from his castle in
the first part of the game, then the Count will be
forced to roam the streets and take shelter from the
daylight where he can - in disused houses, cellars, etc.

If he is trapped for long enough without taking
victims, Nosferatu's bloodlust will grown stronger and
his desire for Lucy more irresistible.  You can then take
the opportunity to lure him to Lucy's house and his
ultimate destruction.

If Nosferatu does not have the deeds to the house, he
may try to regain them by seeking out the estate
agent, Renfield.  Renfield, now sadly in a mental
asylum, could agree to Nosferatu's request.  It is up to
Jonathan and Van Helsing to keep Renfield protected
by laying garlic around the asylum.  They must not
neglect their duty - in Renfield's unstable condition
he could undo their work.

What do you have to help you in the seemingly
endless battle against the growing threat of vampyres
and plague in the town?  Garlic, of course, will keep
the vampyres at bay, but to kill them you need stakes.
A supply of stakes may not be readily available so you
must improvise.

Remember, as an employee of the Estate Agent,
Jonathan alone may have access to some useful items
there.

Should you manage to move Lucy in safety towards
her house, discover Nosferatu's whereabouts and lure
him with you, then the final part of the ordeal begins.

LUCY'S HOUSE

As Lucy, you alone can destroy the Vampyre. Jonathan
and Van Helsing are unaware of your destiny and,
with your best interests at heart, will try to keep you
away from Nosferatu.  You must lock them away in
your house before you can proceed.  Bear in mind that
although united in their vampyre-hunting, the two
men share a love for Lucy.  Once they are out of your
way, you can take Dracula to your room in the east
side of the house for the final hours of your
nightmare.  If you manage to keep Dracula with you
until the light of dawn his reign will come to an end.
Keys definable in program.

Based on the haunting horror movie from 20th
Century Fox.
