OPERATION GUNSHIP
(Code Masters)


Your crack team of S.A.S. commandos are scattered amongst the enemy
islands. Your mission: get them out before the communist revolutionary
army gets them in its evil clutches. Heavily armed and shielded in the
world's most advanced helicopter gunship, you'll be flying in fast and
low, blasting through hostile enemy defences. Your outfit is counting
on you - don't let them down.
This game is one of the most sophisticated battle simulations yet -
gigantic maps packed with islands, enemy bases, tanks, aircraft
carriers, helicopter gunships - everything!


LOADING: 128K users press ENTER
          48K users type LOAD"" press ENTER

CONTROLS
Kempston or Sinclair

                Keyboard  Port-1
Start game      SPACE     FIRE
Turn left       Z         LEFT
Turn right      X         RIGHT
Forward         J         UP
Reverse         N         DOWN
Bullets         K         FIRE
Bomb            SPACE     SPACE
Pause           P         P
Quit            Q         Q

There are five missions. To complete each mission you must find and
rescue eight of your men stranded on the islands and return them to
base. To pick up a man, hover over him and your helicopter will auto-
matically lower a ladder to pick him up (watch the messages box at the
bottom of the screen). Continue to hover until the man is safely on
board. Take the men back to your base (marked with H for H.Q.) and
hover whilst they disembark.
The GUN SIGHTS show where your bombs will land.
Hover over your base to get more ammunition.
A special bonus is awarded for total destruction.

HINTS AND TIPS
* Your helicopter will carry all eight men; don't return them to base
  individually.
* Concentrate fire power on the weakest part of your target.
* Learn where your men are to save time.
* Destroy the enemy generation points quickly, especially aircraft
  carriers.
* Don't fly so fast that you only damage targets; destroy them
  totally.
* Shoot down heat-seeking missiles, or turn sharply out of their path.
* Don't waste your armour, as completing a level only replenishes half
  of it.
* Shooting airborne enemies over targets will cause them to crash and
  destroy the ground bases, saving your valuable ammunition.
* Avoid returning to base to re-arm as this wastes your limited fuel
  supply.


This game was brought to you by ...

Design & Coding     The Oliver Twins
Graphics            Neil Adamson
Music / Sound FX    David Whittaker
Project Manager     Mark Baldock
Production          Stewart Regan
Illustration        Allan Hancock
