PENTAGRAM

PUBLISHER
Ultimate

AUTHOR
1986

CATEGORIES
Arcade adventure

CONTROLS
Keyboard, Kempston, Cursor

KEYS : Left              - Z, C, B, M
       Right             - X, V, N
       Forward           - A to L
       Jump              - Q, E. T, U, O
       Fire              - W, R, Y, I, P
       Pick up/drop      - 1 to 0
       Pause             - SPACE


INSTRUCTIONS
Having escaped from the curse of the werewulf in Knight Lore,
Sabreman is back to his old exploring habits again. Disguised as
a wizard, he must search the haunted forest for the long-lost 
Pentagram...
 
Probably best thought of as being like SABRE WULF but in
isometric 3D. Sabreman must track down the missing parts of the
magic Pentagram, which must then be united and bathed in the
waters from a well that lurks behind a wall of mantraps - runes
must be found too, and then the Pentagram finally becomes
Sabreman's personal property.

The actual gameplay is very similar to Knight Lore, except that
this time Sabreman can defend himself by hurling magical
fireballs at the various enemies. Puzzles are frequent and deadly
- objects, such as tables, logs and blocks of stone, can be moved
by pushing them or by blasting them with magic, in order to
access difficult-to-reach locations.

The items to be collected aren't always in the same locations -
the placement seems to be semi-random. As they are gathered up,
they appear in the left-hand status area, under the lives
remaining icon.


INSTRUCTION LEAFLET
The quest for the PENTAGRAM could not have been further from
Sabreman's mind as he collected his Grand Arch Wizardy spell book from
the Old Mystic Curio Shoppe in Cojour town. It was the last copy of
the book now left in existence.

Sabreman chortled to himself as he eagerly jumped into his shimmering
blue robes and hat. Now at last he was ready.

Through jungle, cavern and castle had he struggled, he trembled as he
relived the fear of ghosts and horrors, battling against all odds to
complete his tasks and bring him to this moment. He paused and then in
an instant he was off, spell book at the ready to solve his quest.

Many years had passed and the PENTAGRAM's whereabouts had slipped
through man's frail memory and into oblivion. Only Myth and Legend
remained to recall its once great power and magnitude, but sadly now
it remains lost. Some say it never really existed, except in man's
fickle and fleeting imagination.

The camp fire's flames licked around the glowing embers of charring
radiant logs. As Sabreman started to read the passage from the Grand
Arch Wizardry Spell Book concerning the PENTAGRAM, hush fell over the
gathering surrounding the fire. Ears eager to clasp the long since
written words as Sabreman begins to speak...

"and silvery waters drawn forth from the well did quench the ravages
of time. Decay dissolved, they point to the stars proud and sharp and
new. Two you will find and thence, two more, all charmed with the
magical dew. Across them you will find the PENTAGRAM, its form will
become as solid as rock for all to see. The Runes must you learn and
glean, their place in Magic and in this land will they find without
aid and the PENTAGRAM will be yours."

The fire flames flickered and died. For soon the land would know the
PENTAGRAM.

The QUEST has begun.


SCORES RECEIVED
"Sabreman fans can't afford to miss this one! 93% (CRASH #29,
June 1986)

GENERAL FACTS

