RAID OVER MOSCOW
(c)1984 Access Software
----------------------------
Docs for ATARI By Brian Hendricks, modified for COMMODORE 64 by 
Magnus Welander with changes by REMEMBER from the original C64
manual (this manual had additions as well as omissions!)

Taken from Project 64
Readapted for the Spectrum in 2001 AD by Alessandro Grussu
http://www.ag-online.da.ru

********************************

RAID OVER MOSCOW is a multi-screen action game which requires 
different skills and provides new sequences as you progress 
through the game.  As squadron commander of the U.S. Defense 
Space Station, you will lead your commandos on a virtual suicide 
mission.  You will attempt to stop the nuclear attack.  If your 
force is successful in knocking out the Soviet launch sites, you 
must go into the city of Moscow itself. Armed with only the 
weapons you can carry, your commandos lead an assault on the 
Soviet Defense Center.


CONTROLS
Redefinable keyboard, Kempston, Cursor or Sinclair joystick.

AUTOMATIC DEMO
If left unattended for some time the game will go into demo mode. 
Under demo the computer will briefly display all of the major 
action screens.

ABORT FEATURE
To cancel the game (or demo) and return to the title screen 
press any key.

 
PLAYING INSTRUCTIONS

SEQUENCE I - SAC HEADQUARTERS

     The opening sequence is a world overview from Strategic 
Air Command Headquarters (SAC). This computer overview alerts 
U.S. Commanders of any nuclear activity. When a Soviet launch has 
occurred, the launch point will turn white on the screen.  The 
computer then immediately identifies the launch site, the target, 
and the time to impact.  The Soviet Missiles will be identifiable 
on the screen as a small cluster of white dots heading toward the 
U.S.  Above the Earth is a white figure which is the U.S. Space 
Station equipped with Stealth Fighter Aircraft.  After a launch 
has been detected, you may enter the space station by pressing 
FIRE.
 
 
SEQUENCE II - DEFENSE TACTICS

Once inside the space station, fighter pilots will begin to 
scramble to their aircraft.  Each Pilot must take his plane out 
of the station.  Because the aircraft is in a semi-weightless 
condition, control is handled by three thrusters and the main 
engine.(NOTE: after the pilot gets to his plane it will move to 
the launch pad & take off by itself)

PUSHING LEFT OR RIGHT on the joystick will rotate the aircraft to 
the left or right, thus controlling the direction that you are 
facing.

PUSHING THE BUTTON will fire the vertical thruster, which will 
raise the aircraft off the launch deck.   
 
PUSHING FORWARD on the stick will fire the main engine causing 
the aircraft to accelerate in the direction it is facing.
 
PULLING BACK on the stick has NO EFFECT since there are no 
brakes. 

Once moving in a certain direction, the only way to slow your 
speed is to rotate (by pushing left or right) until you are 
flying backwards, and then fire the main engine (push forward on 
the stick).

Gravity is very slight, and you will gradually begin to fall back 
to the deck unless you press the button occasionally to maintain 
your altitude. If you hit the launch deck too hard your craft 
will be destroyed. 
          
OPENING THE HANGAR DOORS is accomplished by pressing FIRE once your 
aircraft is off the hangar deck. (The door will stay open only 
for a short period of time!) Once outside the space station, the 
screen will switch to the overview: Your craft will be identified 
by a flashing white dot.  At this point, you must decide either 
to attack the launch point (identified by the white launch site) 
or to take more planes out of the station.  If you decide to 
attack, guide your craft by the joystick to the target.
 
NOTE: TAKING MORE PLANES OUT
The advantages to taking more planes out is that if you lose one 
you will not have to come back to get another plane from the 
space station. One will appear at the start of the attack run. 
If you wish to bring additional aircraft out of the station, 
press FIRE (right after you leave the station) and follow the 
same procedure as before.
 
STRATEGY TIP
Once the launch silos are destroyed (explained in the next two 
scenarios) all remaining aircraft will go back inside the 
station.  Each time you attack a new city and destroy the launch 
site, you will have to go back inside the hangar. Because of 
this, take out only the number of aircraft you believe will be 
required to destroy one launch site. This will save time and 
allow you a better chance to destroy the site before the missiles 
hit U.S. targets. (NOTE: if the missiles reach their target 
before you destroy the main silo your planes will not return to 
the space station, they will "wait" for the next attack outside 
of the station)
 
 
SEQUENCE III - ATTACK RUN 

Now that you are in Soviet airspace, you begin your attack run 
on the Soviet launch sites. In order to reach the launch sites, 
you must first make a run through enemy territory to reach the 
missile silos. To avoid Soviet radar, your craft will have to 
fly at a very low level, and this allows Soviet ground defense 
a chance to shoot you down. Various defense weapons will appear 
as you travel. Each of these are worth points. Beware of Soviet 
heat seeking missiles, which will come up from behind you. When 
you see them coming from behind, fly as low as you can to the 
ground.  Once they have flown past you, shoot the missile down 
for additional points.
 
ATTACK RUN CONTROLS - The controls for this scene are similar to 
the controls for a real jet aircraft. Push left to bank left, 
right to bank right. Push forward to dive and pull back to 
climb. (Some people find it helpful when playing this scene, to 
face the right as if they were actually sitting in the aircraft.)

LEVEL DIFFERENCES: On level 1, you are prevented from crashing 
into the ground, but not on levels 2 or 3, also you can crash 
into the objects on the screen.
 
After the run through enemy territory is completed, prepare to 
destroy the launch silos.
 
 
SEQUENCE IV - THE MISSILE SILOS

Once you reach the missile silos, check the control panel to see 
how much time before the missiles hit the U.S.
 
In this scene there is one main control silo surrounded by four 
launch silos. Control of your aircraft is the same as the attack 
run:

   Move joystick left to move left.
   Move joystick right to move right.
   Push forward to dive.
   Pull back to climb.
 
Each silo has a small window which you must fire a rocket through 
in order to destroy it.  When you are properly lined up at the 
target, the ON TARGET caption will appear.
 
As you attempt to line up on a target, the silo defense system 
will fire at you. You can avoid the enemy rockets by moving left 
or right or by moving up or down.  The elevation of the enemy 
rocket is set at the same elevation as your aircraft at the time 
of firing.
 
The Center Silo is the control silo.  The nuclear missiles laun-
ched are controlled from this point.
 
When this silo is destroyed the missiles can no longer be 
controlled and cannot be detonated.  This silo can be destroyed 
first if time is running out, but when it is hit, the attack will 
stop and you will switch back to the computer overview.  The 
silos located on the side of the Control Silo are worth high 
points.  In addition, when you destroy one of these silos, you 
will be awarded an extra aircraft (you may have 9 maximum).  
If you destroy all the silos in the scene, extra points will be 
added to your score.
 
As you attempt to destroy the silos, enemy aircraft will enter 
from the left and try to shoot you down.
 
NOTE:
Pay close attention to the "Time to Impact" heading on the 
control panel. If time is running out, you may want to attack 
the main control silo first. However, because each silo is worth 
an extra plane and a considerable amount of points, destroying 
all of the silos will greatly enhance your score.
 
 
SEQUENCE V - THE SOVIET DEFENSE CENTER

You will not be allowed to attack the Soviet Defense Center in 
Moscow until you have destroyed each of the three perimeter 
launch sites at Leningrad, Minsk, and Saratov.  After the last 
perimeter site is destroyed, you will make a final attack run 
into the city of Moscow. Your mission is to blow up the Defense 
Center. If you are successful, you will set Soviet military 
strength back ten years!
 
The scene opens with a U.S. Commando in  trench behind a stone 
wall in front of the Defense Center. To control movement from 
side to side move the joystick left and right. Moving the 
joystick forward and back controls the elevation of the rocket 
launcher on the shoulder.  Once a target is lined up, use the 
button to fire.
 
TARGETS - Soldiers are located on the walls on both sides of 
the Defense Center. These soldiers will fire at you, so it is 
imperative not to stay in the same position for very long in 
the trench.
 
Secondary targets include all of the towers on the buildings.  
These can be destroyed to increase your score.
 
Other targets are the doors located directly ahead of you. One 
of these doors is an entrance into the reactor room (the next 
scene).  While the other doors turn RED when hit, this door 
turns WHITE (with a white square in the center). The door is 
randomly selected and will be different each time.
 
Enemy tanks will come out of side doors and try to stop you.  
Again if you stay in one position too long you are likely to 
get blasted.
 
ENTERING THE REACTOR
Once all the soldiers are eliminated, the tank destroyed, and 
the door opened, you will progress to the next scene. Remember, 
however, that all the towers on the building can be destroyed 
for extra points.
 
Once a soldier is shot off the wall, he will be replaced after 
a certain amount of time.  Keep this in mind when you are 
playing because you will not be able to progress to the next 
scene until the white door is exposed and there are no men or 
tanks in the scene.
 
 
SEQUENCE VI - INSIDE THE REACTOR ROOM

Now you have penetrated inside the Soviet Defense Center and are 
inside the nuclear reactor chamber, which is the power source of 
the facility.
 
Description of the Screen
A maintenance robot will travel from side to side to keep the 
reactor temperature stable.  If the cooling process is interrup-
ted, the reactor will overheat and become unstable. The system 
will gradually reach critical mass and explode.
 
Your objective is to sabotage this operation by neutralizing the 
maintenance robot.
 
The robot has defense capabilities and will be able to sense your 
presence inside the facility.  He will begin automatically firing 
at you.  In addition, he is invulnerable to a frontal attack. The 
robot does have an Achilles heel. If the robot is hit from 
behind, the control circuits can be damaged and it can eventually 
be destroyed.
 
Because the robot maintenance area cannot be penetrated; your 
weapon is a small disc grenade. To hit the robot from behind, 
your disc must be bounced off the rear wall of the facility.
 
To help you get the proper angle you also have a laser beam 
guidance system. This appears as a small black dot on the back 
wall.  To adjust the guidance system, push forward on the 
joystick to move right and pull back to move the target left.
 
To move your commando push the joystick left or right.  When your 
commando and target are properly lined up, push the button on the 
joystick to release the disc.
 
You have only a certain number of discs and men.  You can 
retrieve your discs by catching them before they pass you. Each 
time a disc hits the robot, that disc is lost. You are awarded 
an extra disc when a robot is destroyed. To catch a disc, you 
must move your man directly in front of the disc as it comes 
towards you.  Each robot will require four hits from behind it 
to destroy it. More than one robot will need to be destroyed to 
accomplish your mission. 

LEVEL DIFFERENCES: The number of robots which must be destroyed 
is, on Level 1:  2 , Level 2:  4 , Level 3:  5 .

In addition, each time you hit the robot, it moves faster and 
becomes more aggressive.  The number of men you have in this 
scene will be determined by how successful you have been 
throughout the game.  Once you are out of men, the game is over.  
If you run out of discs, and you still have men left, you will 
have to go back outside to the previous scene (Defense Center) 
and battle back inside in order to have more discs.
 
In some cases, you may want to sacrifice a man in order to save 
a disc. If the disc is still on the screen when a man is lost, 
the disc will be saved.
 
After the next to last robot is destroyed, the final robot 
offers up a big problem. This last robot is so aggravated by 
your presence that he neglects the reactor, which is already 
unstable.  This will cause the reactor to go critical. On the 
right edge of the screen is a timer that will show the amount 
of time to ETCM (Estimated Time To Critical Mass).  

At critical mass the reactor will explode taking the Defense 
Center with it. Whether you escape alive or not will be 
determined at this point. If you destroy the robot with enough 
time left to make it to your plane you will survive.  If not, 
we will notify your family.
 
 
SCENE VII - THE FINAL CHAPTER

This scene will let you know if your mission is entirely 
successful.  If you escape, you will be awarded considerable 
bonus points.

      
-END-
