RIVER RESCUE
------------

RACING AGAINST TIME

By Phil Snell

Three intrepid scientists are lost in the jungle. As Captain of a powerful
river boat, you hope to claim the reward offered for their rescue.

Navigating one of the wildest and most hazardous rivers in the world is not
easy, but speed is essential as there are others on the trail.

As you avoid or shoot the obstacles in this winding river, listen for signals
from the explorers weak radio transmitter, telling you that you are close
to your goal.

Rescue all three explorers and take them to the jungle hospital to get your
bonus.

This arcade style game features:
* A superb scrolling screen
* Keyboard or joystick control
* Game variations: 1 or 2 player game.

You are the owner of the fastest power boat in the region. Your knowledge of
the treacherous river and the dense jungle which engulfs it on both sides is
second to none, that is why you got the job of bringing out a group of
scientists who have got themselves trapped in the upper reaches of the river.
With supplies running desperately low it is essential that you don't waste
time finding them and delivering them to the safety of the hospital.

Relying entirely on your lightning reactions you will have to steer your
boat at speed between floating logs, crocodiles and rocks as well as avoiding
the river banks themselves. To help you clear a passage up the river your
boat is fitted with a powerful fast action 30 mm cannon.

Your reward for a successful job is based upon the number of scientists
rescued and how fast you do it. Your rivals however are out to stop you at
all costs. At any moment their aeroplanes could fly overhead, dropping
deadly mines in your path. This will mean the end of you unless you can blast
them out of the way.

Sounds easy?? Try it!!

POWER UP

1. Before switchin on the Spectrum, connect the joystick (Sinclair or
Kempston) if this is to be used.

2. Connect the television to the computer and switch the television ON.

3. Connect the cassette recorder to the computer and switch the cassette
recorder ON.

4. Place the RIVER RESCUE cassette in the recorder and rewind to the
beginning.

5. Check that the EAR lead is connected correctly and that the volume level
of the cassette recorder is set correctly.

6. Type LOAD "" (do not leave a space between the quotes), then press ENTER.

7. Press PLAY on the tape recorder.

8. When the program has finished loading, press STOP on the cassette
recorder.

9. If the program does not load sucessfully, try adjusting the volume setting
of the tape recorder and repeat the above from step 3. If the problem
persists, refer to chapter 6 of the Spectrum Introduction Manual.

CONTROLS

1. When the program has loaded, the title of the game will appear on the
screen.

2. Press the S key to select either a one player or a two player game.

3. Press J to play with a Kempston joystick (the letters kj will appear on
the screen).

4. Press H to play with a Sinclair joystick (sj will appear on the screen).

5. Press the fire button on the joystick to fire torpedoes.

6. Press K to use the keyboard (k will appear on the screen).

The controls are as follows:
O and P = left and right
Q and A = up and down
Zero = fire

7. When you have selected the method of play, press G to start the game.
Pressing R at any time will take you to the title screen.

DATA DISPLAY

1. The high score is displayed at the top of the screen, together with the
scores for player one and player two. The arrow by the highscores indicates
which player has achieved that score.

2. When player one is in control, the letters PLAYER 1 will be white. They
will change to black when player 2 is playing.

3. At the bottom of the screen are displayed the number of boats available
to player 1 (on the left) and player 2 (on the right). Each player stats with
five boats.

RESCUE PLAN

1. The object of the game is to navigate your way along the river, avoiding
the islands and sandbanks and shooting the crocodiles (to score points).
When you reach the jetties, pick up lost scientists from the north bank and
take them to the south bank.

2. When the jetties appear on the screen (one at the top and one at the
bottom) you may dock by sliding the boat alongside. When it touches the
jetty, your boat will stop and, at the top jetty, a scientist will run on
board.

3. If you dock alongside the bottom jetty, any scientists you may have on
board will run ashore and you will score a bonus for each one. The more you
have aboard, the higher the score for each one. You may carry up to nine at
a time.

4. To continue upstream after docking, press the fire button on the joystick
or press zero on the keyboard.

5. If you dock and let six or more scientits off in one go, you will see a
pair of bonus piers in the river ahead of you. If you can navigate your boat
between them - without crashing - you will recieve an extra boat. If you
then survive long enough to pick up another scientist, you will recieve a
bonus.

6. If you dock and let off nine passengers, you will score an extra bonus.

7. If your boat is destroyed all passengers aboard will be lost and you must
begin picking them up again (if you have any boats left).

8. Occasionally two planes, manned by your desperate rivals, will fly above
you and drop mines into the river ahead of you. You must shoot these mines
to avoid being blown up.

9. You will obtain higher scores if you move the boat into the right-hand
section of the screen - it will glow more brightly when in the bonus area.
However, as the game progresses, you may find yourself unable to return
to the left side of the screen.

WARNING: ALL RIGHTS OF THE PRODUCES AND THE OWNER OF THE WORK REPRODUCED
RESERVED. UNAUTHORISED COPYING, HIRING, LENDING, PUBLIC PERFORMANCE RADIO OR
TV BROADCASTING OR DIFFUSION OF THIS CASSETTE PROHIBITED

(C) 1985 CREATIVE SPARKS DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD.
(R) 1985 CREATIVE SPARKS DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD.
MANUFACTURED IN UK

Sparklers, Unit B11, Armstrong Mall, The Summit Centre, Southwood,
Farnborough, Hants, GU14 0NP

(Transcribed by Robin Stuart)
