ROBIN OF THE WOOD

PUBLISHER
Odin Computer Graphics Ltd.

AUTHOR(S)
In-house

YEAR
1985

CATEGORY
Arcade adventure

CONTROLS
Keyboard Controls: You can define which keys you want to use. 
Press 1.  Joystick Controls: Robin can be controlled by using the
KEMPSTON INTERFACE, SINCLAIR INTERFACE II, CURSOR JOYSTICK
INTERFACE, press 2, 3 or 4

To Start Game: Press 0

RUNNING:  Left and Right      Will move Robin left and right
          Up and Down         Will make him run up or down
FIGHTING: Fire                Puts Robin at the ready to strike
          Fire plus L / R     And Robin goes into action.
                              Will stab in that direction when
                              Robin is using his sword
ENTER:                        Pause game
BREAK:( Caps Shift + Space )  Restart Game

INSTRUCTIONS

ORIGINAL INLAY CARD TEXT

About Robin
-----------

From a time outside history -- before the language of the English
was ever written down -- there come to us stories and legends of
heroes and valiant folk. Amid battles and adventures, deeds of
courage and of treachery, striving against tyranny, fighting for
the weak against the strong -- stealing from the rich so that the
poor might be fed, stands a young man dressed in Lincoln green;
a bowman, a poacher, and notorious outlaw; a Saxon...

'Robin of the Wood'
-------------------

England was in the grip of tyranny, brought by William and his
conquering Norman hordes. Saxon nobles were dispossessed and
often killed, lowly villagers taxed to the point of starvation.
The only ray of hope for the future of the Saxons of England lay
in the strong arms and keen eye of Robin.

Robin, the very spirit of the Ancient Forest which covered this
fair land.

'Robin of the Wood' was the whispered reply to bullying Normans
when asked from whence came the side of venison on which the poor
of a small Saxon village were feeding.

'Robin of the Wood' was the cry, as hated tax collectors stripped
bare the fields of Saxon smallholders.

'Robin of the Wood' the people cheered, as the bruised, battered
and bewildered Norman brutes staggered bleeding and beaten from
the bowers of the ancient forest.

Game Scenario
-------------
The Sheriff had in his possession a certain arrow, made of solid
silver, engraved with characters as ancient as the very forest.
It was indeed the 'Shaft of Power' of the Saxon nation, symbol
of freedom and peace, more precious than the crown of the Kingdom
itself to the Saxons. Yet it was with this arrow as bait that the
Sheriff planned to capture this mysterious 'Robin of the Wood'.
He well knew of the importance of the Silver Arrow to the
peasants of his domain, indeed to offer it as a prize, as though
it were a mere trinket or bauble, appealed to him as a prime
insult to the serfs, and worthwhile simply for that reason. It
was when he realised that such a prize, while meaningless to
himself, would be certain to attract Robin to the contestm that
he finally decided. There was to be a great archery contest
-- the prize was to be the Silver Arrow -- and for the Sheriff,
the main prize was to be the death or capture of Robin.

On the day of the contest the woods were swarming with Norman
soldiers -- the Sheriff's men. They had orders to shoot on sight,
and shoot to kill.

Robin of the Wood -- The Challenge
----------------------------------
A Proclamation by his Lordship the Sheriff of Nottingham.

"Let it be known that on the third Sunday of this month at the
castle of Nottingham, there shall be a grand tournament of
archery.  Come all who may to try and win, for he who shoots
straightest shall be hailed as the best archer in all of England,
and to him shall be presented an arrow, crafted in solid silver
of inestimable value and antiquity.

    Long live Prince John, Regent of all England"

Robin
-----
As you must go alone to take up the challenge issued by the
Sheriff, Scarlett and I have hidden quivers of arrows in secret
places around the forest to help you overcome the foe.  There are
witches about at this time of the year so be wary -- if you
should meet one it would be well if you could pay tribute to her.
Fortunately there are many kinds of woodland plant which they
often seek and are always glad of.  There dwells in the greenwood
an ancient hermit, who though thou be near death can cure thee
of all ails -- but be warned that this saintly man will allow no
weapons near his home.  Your sword and trusty bow are in the
keeping of the old Forest Ent along with 3 charmed arrows which
will ensure that you are not recognised at the Tournament. You
must give him 3 bags of gold for each weapon so that he may
redistribute to the poor of the parish the tithes stolen from the
holychurch by the evil Bishop of Peterborough.
Good luck Robin.

John Little.


HINTS/CHEATS

SEQUELS/PREQUELS

SCORES RECEIVED

URLS

GENERAL FACTS

NOTES
