ROBOCOP 2 - OCEAN

SCENARIO 

Become Robocop and battle your way through seven levels of unique action that
will test your reflexes, your brain-power and your co-ordination. Improve your
skills in all these fields. Only then, will you stand a chance against your
greatest enemy - Robocop 2!

LOADING
CASSETE 128K ONLY
 
Place the cassette in the recorder ensuring that it is fully rewound. Select
LOADER option and press RETURN key. Press PLAY on your recorder - the game will
now load automatically.

SPECTRUM +3 DISK 

Set up system and switch on as described in your instruction manual. Insert
disk and press ENTER to choose 'LOADER' option. This program will then load
automatically.

CONTROLS
 
This is a one player game controlled by joystick or keyboard which is fully
redefinable.


LEVELS 1,4 and 7

O - WALK LEFT 
P - WALK RIGHT JUMP/UP 
Q - JUMP/UP
A - CROUCH/DOWN SHOOT 

Pressing down and fire in front of a door will allow you to go through the door
between the front and back levels.

R - PAUSE GAME
 
JOYSTICK
 
N - JUMP/UP 
NE - POINT GUN UP RIGHT
E - WALK RIGHT
S - CROUCH/DOWN
W - WALK LEFT
NW - POINT GUN UP LEFT

LEVELS 2 AND 5
 
To move the cursor press in the required direction. To shift a row on the
circuit board to the left or right press fire button and simultaneously push
left/right. To shift a row on the circuit board up or down press fire button
and simultaneously push up or down.

LEVELS 3 AND 6

To move Robocop's gunsights press in the required direction. Fire button fires
his gun.

GAMEPLAY

LEVELS 1, 4 AND 7
 
Your mission begins in the River Rouge Sludge Plant. Locate the Nuke Lab - but
watch out for trouble! You will encounter several unarmed "Arrest Subjects" -
when arrest flashes at the top left of the screen so will the subject, and you
must walk into him - if you shoot him time will be reduced.

LEVELS 2 & 5

Robocop also faces an inner battle. After encountering the desperate Nuke
gangs, OCP managed to implant hundreds of confusing directives into the
captured Robocop. The only chance of regaining his full capability is to find
the memory chips recording his human past. Move the cursor around the tracks of
each circuit board collecting 32 to complete the picture on 4 boards. But
remember that once a track has been "burnt' it cannot be re-crossed, Also, do
not cross the directive chips, otherwise you will have to restart your current
circuit board.

LEVELS 3 AND 6

Robocop will have two sessions at the Detroit Police Shooting Range to test and
improve his targeting skills. He will have one minute in which to shoot as many
armed criminal targets as possible. Whilst avoiding the civilian targets.
Robocop's performance will affect his shooting in the following level. i.e. he
will need more shots to kill an enemy if his rating on the gallery is poor.

LEVEL 4
 
Having improved his skills, Robocop must then proceed to the Tokugawa Brewery
where he must first recover a "Nuke" cannister from one of the taller storage
tanks and then locate and destroy Nuke storage vaults before returning to the
OCP laboratories for repair and reprogramming. He must now find memory chips
recording his wife's past.

LEVEL 7

This is it!! OCP's Civic Centrum. Within this imposing building is a walking
fortress - Robocop 2!

STATUS AND SCORING
 
The status panel informs you of the number of subjects arrested, score, amount
of special weapon ammo remaining and lives left. At the top of the playing area
is a bar indicator which displays how much enery Robocop has left. You will
receive points for shooting armed enemy gangs and criminal targets on the range
and for collecting all icons and memory chips. Bonus points are awarded at the
end of each scrolling level for the number of subjects arrested Top scores can
be entered onto the high-score table.

HINTS AND TIPS

* Think before you shoot or you may shoot someone unarmed! 
* Take time to plan your route on the memory puzzles. 
* On the scrolling levels be careful where you tread - the floors can be
  treacherous!
* Explore the scrolling levels fully to find the route to your goal. 
* Beware on the firing range - shooting civilians will reduce your rating. 
* Watch out for "power-ups" that will provide benefits such as extra energy,
  extra lives, a temporary invincibili1y shield plus extra ammunition.


ROBOCOP 2

Its program code, graphic representation and artwork are the copyright of Ocean
Software Limited and may not be reproduced, stored, hired or broadcast in any
form whatsoever without the written permission of Ocean Software Limited. All
rights are reserved worldwide. THIS SOFlWARE PRODUCT HAS BEEN CAREFULLY
DEVELOPED AND MANUFACTURED TO THE HIGHEST QUALITY STANDARDS. PLEASE READ
CAREFULLY THE INSTRUCTIONS FOR LOADING. If for any reason you have difficulty
in running the program you may contact our Ocean Helpline direct by telephoning
0626332533. However if you believe that the product is defective, please return
it direct to: Mr. Yates, Ocean Software Limited, 6 Central Street, Manchester
M2 5NS. Our quality control department will test the product and supply an
immediate replacement if we find a fault. If we cannot find a fault the product
will be returned to you at no charge. Please note that this does not affect
your statutory rights.

CREDITS

ROBOCOP 2 TM & (c) 1990 Orion Pictures Corporation. All Rights Reserved. 
Programming by Andrew Deokin Graphics by Ivan Horn 
Music/Sound FX by Matthew Cannon Produced by Jon Woods 
@ 1990 Ocean Software Ltd. 

Childline Childline is the free national helpline for children and young people
in trouble or danger. It provides a confidential counselling service for any
child with any problem, 24 hours a day, every day of the year. Childline
listens, comforts and protects. 0800 1111
