SKOOLDAZE
~~~~~~~~~

  In the role of our hero, Eric (or any other name
you decide to call him and the rest of the cast),
you know that inside the staffroom safe are kept
the school reports. And, being Eric, you realise
that you must at all costs remove your report
before it comes to the attention of the
Headmaster.

  The combination to the safe consists of four
letters, each master knowing one letter and the
Headmaster's letter always coming first. To get
hold of the combination, you first have to hit all
the shields hanging on the school walls. Trouble
is, this isn't as easy as it looks. Some of them can
be hit by jumping up. Others are more difficult. 
You could try and hit a shield by bouncing a pellet
off a master's head whilst he is sitting on the
ground. Or, being Eric, you may decide to knock
over one of the boys and, whilst he's flattened,
clamber up on him so that you can jump higher.

  OK. So all the shields are flashing wildly,
disorientating the poor masters. Knock them over
now and, before they can stop themselves, they'll
reveal their letter of the code. All except for the
history master, of course, who because of his
great age and poor eyesight can't be trusted to
remember. His letter has been implanted into his
mind hypnotically. To make him reveal it, you must
find out the year he was born (which, in case
you were wondering, changes each game). Then,
creep into a room before he gets there and, if the
board is clean, write it on the blackboard. When
he goes into that room and sees his birthdate he
will, as if by post-hypnotic suggestion, give away
his letter.

  Now that you know all the letters of the
combination, all you have to do is work out which
order they go in. You know that the Headmaster's
letter is always first, but as for the other three...
you'll just have to try the various possibilities. Find
a clean blackboard and write out a combination.

  Rush back to the staffroom and jump up to
reach the safe with your hand. If nothing happens,
then the combination must be wrong, so you'd
better find another clean blackboard and try a
different one.

  With the safe open, your troubles still aren't
over, as the flashing shields are rather a giveaway.
To stop them flashing, you now have to hit all of
them again.

  Done it? Congratulations! You are now allowed,
along with all your friends, to move on to the next
class at school. But remember, there will be
reports at the end of this term.....



MICROSPHERE COMPUTER SOFTWARE LTD.
72, ROSEBERY ROAD, LONDON N10 2LA



SCHOOL RULES
------------
  Boys shall attend lessons as shown in the time-
table at the bottom of the screen. (Remember that
because you cheated in the exams last year, you
always go to the same lessons as the swot.)

  Boys do not score points by attending lessons,
but may be given lines if caught in the wrong
place.

  Boys who acquire over 10,000 lines shall be
expelled immediately from the school.

  Boys are not allowed to enter the staffroom or
the Headmaster's study. Take care.

  At playtime, boys are supposed to be playing
and not in any of the classrooms.

  Boys shall not hit their schoolmates.

  Boys shall not fire catapults.

  Boys are expected to walk quietly in the
corridors - they are not for running or sitting in.

  School dinners are compulsory.

  Boys will be neat and polite at all times.


THE KEYS
--------
Cursor Keys - right
            - left
            - upstairs in the direction you are
              moving.
            - downstairs in the direction you
              are moving.
            
    also: O - left
          P - right
          Q - upstairs in the direction you are
              moving.
          A - downstaird in the direction you
              are moving.

(If CAPS SHIFT is pressed at the same time as O,
P,Q or A, this will result in fast movement in that
direction.)

Other keys to perform specific actions are:

          S - sit/stand
          H - hit
          W - write
     J or L - jump or leap
    0 or  F - fire


JOYSTICKS
---------
  Joysticks can also be used. With a joystick, the
directions and firing of the catapult are selected
from the joystick, but the keyboard must still be
used for the other actions.

  You select the type of joystick at the same time
as giving names to the cast. So, when you see the
prompt "Do you want to change names?" reply Y,
and when the list of options appears, reply:

          N - to use the keyboard
          K - for Kempston
          I - for Sinclair Interface 2
          C - for cursor keys type joystick


SCORING
-------
Hitting the shields - score depends on difficulty
Hitting all 15 shields - scores a bonus
Opening the safe after getting the combination -
scores a bonus
Hitting the shields after opening the safe - score
depends on difficulty
Lines given to the swot or bully - their lines add to
your score
Hitting the bully by punching him or with a
catapult - if you dare!

LOADING THE PROGRAM
-------------------
To load "Skooldaze":-
1. Important. Unplug your computer and
   reconnect it, to clear it completely.
2. Set the volume control on your cassette
   recorder to somewhere near the middle.
   Rewind the cassette to the beginning of the
   tape.
3. Connect the EAR socket of the cassette
   recorder to the EAR socket of the Spectrum.
   Make sure that ther is nothing in the MIC
   socket of the recorder.
4. Type in LOAD ""
5. Press ENTER and start your cassette recorder
   playing.
If the tape fails to load, try again with different
volume levels. If it still fails to load, return it to the
shop it was brought from in the first instance. If this
is not possible, send it back to MICROSPHERE ay
the above address, with proof of purchase and
stating when and where it was brought, for a 
replacement. Replacements will only be given to
the original purchaser upon satisfactory proof of
purchase.


This program and documentation, it's content,
game principles and graphical presentation are
copyright Microsphere Computer Services Ltd.
They may not be reproduced, in part or in whole
by any means or in any form without the express
persmisson of copyright holder. Penalties for
infringement of copyright are high. This program is
sold subject to the condition that it will not be lent
or hired out.
