SMASH TV
========

SCENARIO 

Bored with TV Game Shows?

IF SO PREPARE YOURSELF FOR THE 
ULTIMATE GAME SHOW CHALLENGE 

The prizes are wild, the stakes incredibly high - are 
you mean enough to take part? If you accept you stand 
to win enough money and prizes to make you fabulously 
wealthy, not forgetting the adoration of the totally 
TV orientated society. If you lose - you die! Good 
luck and remember...

SMILE, YOU'RE ON TV


LOADING

SPECTRUM 48K/128/+2/+2A/+3 CASSETTE

48K Version 

Place the cassette in the recorder ensuring that it is 
fully rewound. Select '48 Basic' from the menu and press 
Enter. Type Load"" and press Enter. Start tape. 

128/+2/+2A/+3 Versions

Select LOADER option and press the ENTER key. Follow 
on-screen instructions.

SPECTRUM +3 DISK

Set up system and switch on as described in your instruction 
manual. Insert disk and press ENTER to choose LOADER option. 
This program will then load automatically.


STATUS AND SCORING

Points are scored for each alien defeated. However all the 
BIG points are scored when you defeat the giant end-of-level 
baddie. When he is eliminated PRIZES MAKE POINTS The status 
panel displays current score, high score and number of lives 
remaining.


GAMEPLAY

The cheering from the ecstatic crowd fades away as you leave 
the safety of the studio and enter the first of the four 
insanely dangerous and devious, gaming arenas. Instantly 
you are set upon by hordes of thugs wielding baseba bats. 
Each with only one intent - beating the living daylights 
out of you! Deal with these guys if you can, there are lots 
of them. Use your skill to navigate the arenas and collect 
power-ups, speed ups, spinning shurikans, mace balls, 
grenade and rocket launchers, multiples and, of course, smart 
bombs. All of these items will increase your ability to wreak 
havoc upon the mindless meatheads. Watch out for mines though! 
Wall mounted gunners and tanks will constantly make your task 
just that bit harder than it already is. However, you will find 
yourself relentlessly driven on by the lure of the countless 
prizes awaiting you. It doesn't seem so bad to be risking life 
and limb when you are winning holidays, sleek roadsters, 
luggage and, of course, mindbending amounts of cash. As you 
progress through the game zones you will encounter floating 
droids, electric pulse generating orbs, poisonous snakes, 
walking time bombs, mutant lizard men, and countless other 
mechanical and biological opponents. However, you haven't seen 
the worst of it yet. Prepare yourself for the end-of-level 
baddies who will make you regret your decision to enter this
gladiatorial-like game at all! For example, at the end of level 
one, you will encounter a huge mutant skinhead on a tank. He 
will do his utmost to crush you underfoot (and track) - and he 
is the easiest opponent of them all! If you make it through all 
four of the nightmarish game zones you will confront your final 
and most lethal challenge. The game show host himself. Sounds 
easy? Think again - he's insane, enormous and can only understand 
one thing...

TOTAL CARNAGE

Defeat him if you can - the rewards are well worth it. 
Good luck, and remember...

SMILE, YOU'RE ON TV


HINTS AND TIPS

1. The triple shot is the best weapon to collect.
2. Big shots auto repeat by holding the fire button down.
3. Make a map and work out the shortest route.
4. Collect extra lives as soon as they appear.


THIS SOFTWARE PRODUCT HAS BEEN CAREFULLY DEVELOPED AND 
MANUFACTURED TO THE HIGHEST QUALITY STANDARDS. PLEASE 
READ THE INSTRUCTIONS FOR LOADING, CAREFULLY.

If for any reason you have difficulty in running the program you 
may contact our Ocean Helpline direct by telephoning 0626332533. 
However if you believe that the product is defective please return 
it direct to: Mr. Yates, Ocean Software Limited, 6 Central Street, 
Manchester, M2 5NS. 

Our quality control department will test the product ana supply 
a replacement if we find a fault. If we cannot find a fault 
the product will be returned to you at no extra charge. Please note 
that this does not affect your statutory rights.


CREDITS

SMASH TV™ ©1990 Williams Electronics Games Inc.

Acclaim® is a trademark of Acclaim Entertainment, Inc. 

Conversion by Probe Software for Ocean Software Ltd.

Programming by: 

ST/Amiga 	 - ZZKJ
C64 		 - Nick Jones 
Spectrum/Amstrad - David Perry 

Artwork by: 

ST/Amiga 	 - Mark Knowles 
C64  		 - Lee Ames 
Spectrum/Amstrad - Nick Bruty 

Music by: 

Amiga/ST/Spectrum/Amstrad - Sound Images 
C64 			  - Jeroen Tel
