SPACE GUN
Ocean


SCENARIO

In the year 2039AD man has begun deep space exploration. However, throughout
the deep expanse of space there are many unknown dangers awaiting weary 
travellers and explorers.
From a crippled ship a distress call is transmitted. You have received the
message. Will you be able to rescue the helpless hostages from the clutches of
the astral hijackers?
Travel through corridors and rooms packed with aliens of all sizes, searching
for survivors, and out onto the planet surface to more dangerous regions.


LOADING

COMMODORE CASSETTE
Position the cassette in your Commodore recorder with the printed side upwards
and make sure that it is rewound to the beginning. Ensure that all the leads
are connected. Press the SHIFT key and the RUN/STOP key simultaneously. Follow
the on-screen instructions - PRESS PLAY ON TAPE. This program will then load
automatically. For C128 loading type GO 64 (RETURN), then follow C64
instructions.

DISK
Select 64 mode (if using Commodore 128). Turn on the disk drive, insert the
program into the drive with the label facing upwards. Type LOAD "*",8,1
(RETURN). The introductory screen will appear and the program will then load
automatically.

SPECTRUM 128/+2/+2A/+3 (128K ONLY) CASSETTE
Place the cassette in the recorder, ensuring that it is fully rewound. Select
LOADER option and press the ENTER key. Follow on-screen instructions.


CONTROLS

C64/CONSOLE
This is a one-player game controlled by a joystick in Port 2. During the 
titles use the joystick to select music or sound effects and press Fire to
start the game.
During the game the joystick will move the gunsight and the Fire button will
fire. If a second fire button exists it will select a weapon from the 
available arsenal.
On a C64 the following keys are used:
	SPACE        SELECT WEAPON
	RUN/STOP     PAUSE (Fire to resume or Q to quit)

SPECTRUM
This is a one-player game playable with a Sinclair 2, Kempston or Cursor
joystick. To use a Kempston joystick press K during the titles. If none of
these joysticks is available the following keys can be used:
	Q	UP
	A	DOWN
	O	LEFT
	P	RIGHT
	SPACE	FIRE
The following keys are used with all joysticks and keyboard:
	M	SELECT WEAPON
	H	PAUSE GAME (H to resume)
During the game the appropriate controller will move the gunsight and the fire
button will fire. The M key will select a weapon from the available arsenal.


GAMEPLAY

Travel through the corridors of the spaceship and the barren planet surface
searching for trapped hostages who must be rescued. As you pass walls
flashing lights may appear and firing at these will produce one of the
following pickups which can be collected by shooting them:

a flame thrower - scorch those aliens!
a grenade - blow 'em to smithereens!
a blade - cut 'em in two!
a freeze gun - leave 'em standing!
body armour - protect yourself!
red tube - refresh yourself with some energy units
yellow tube - restore yourself to full energy

If a weapon is continually fired its recharge rate will drop and its
firepower will become less and less effective. The weapon's recharge rate
will increase if firing is ceased.

In some parts of the complex you will encounter large guardians which must
be conquered before you can continue.

You will fail in your mission if you lose all your energy or lose all
your hostages.

On some implementations you may have a choice of direction to travel at
certain points in the complex. Select a direction by shooting the
appropriate arrow which will appear.


STATUS AND SCORING

At the top of the screen are the scores for the players taking part, the
time remaining to complete the current section of the complex and the number
of hostages in that section. A hostage icon will be blank if they have not
been found, filled if they have been rescued or crossed out if they have
been killed.

At the bottom of the screen is a radar display which will reveal some of the
aliens in the vicinity and, for each player taking part, a display
indicating the current number of special weapons in their arsenal and which
weapon is currently selected, the current energy available to the player
shown as a segmented bar and the current weapon recharge rate.


HINTS AND TIPS

Concentrate on large aliens first. Use special weapons on large groups for
best results. Collect as many different weapons as possible. Remember that
not all aliens will appear on the radar. Don't get the blues or life will
become tricky!


CREDITS

(c) 1991 Taito Corp. All Rights Reserved.
Conversion by Images Software Ltd.
C64 Programmed by Tom Pinnock
Graphics by Andy Pang, Chris Edwards
Spectrum Programmed by Damian Stones
Graphics by Steve B.
Music by Sonic Projects
Produced by D.C. Ward
(c) 1992 Ocean Software Ltd.
