STORMLORD - HEWSON CONSULTANTS LTD

[ Stormlord logo ]

By Raffaele Cecco and Nick Jones

48K ZX Spectrum, ZX Spectrum Plus, ZX Spectrum 128, +2, +3, Amstrad
CPC 464, CPC 664 and CPC 6128, Commodore 64 and 128

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

Spectrum Cassette

48K ZX Spectrum, ZX Spectrum Plus or ZX Spectrum 128 with cassette
player, ZX Spectrum +2

You are advised to disconnect all hardware from the rear edge
connector with the exception of your joystick interface (if any). When
using a Sinclair Interface 2 or the ZX Spectrum +2 plug the
appropriate joystick into port 1. Unless using a ZX Spectrum +2
connect a cassette player to the computer in the usual manner. ZX
Spectrum +2 and 128 users should select 48K mode. Rewind the cassette
if necessary, enter LOAD "" on the computer keyboard and press ENTER
key. Press the Play key on the cassette player. The game takes a few
minutes to load.

Amstrad Cassette

Amstrad CPC 464
Amstrad CPC 664 or Amstrad CPC 6128 with cassette player and suitable
leads.

Amstrad CPC 664 and CPC 6128 users should connect a cassette player to
the computer and enter |tape and press the ENTER key. Press the
cassette in the player, rewind if necessary and press the CTRL and
ENTER keys. Press the Play on the cassette player and then any key on
the computer keyboard. The game takes a few minutes to load.

Amstrad Disc

Amstrad CPC 6128 or Amstrad CPC 664
Amstrad CPC 464 with disc drive

Amstrad CPC 464 users should connect a disc drive to the computer and
enter |disc and press the ENTER key. Place the disc in the drive and
enter RUN "disc and press the RETURN or ENTER key. The game takes a
few seconds to load.

Commodore Cassette

Commodore 64 or Commodore 128 with suitable cassette player.

You are advised to disconnect all hardware from your computer. Connect
the cassette player to the computer, place the cassette in the player
and rewind if necessary. Press the SHIFT and RUN/STOP keys on the
computer keyboard and press the Play key on the cassette player. The
game takes a few minutes to load.

Commodore Disc

Commodore 64 or Commodore 128 with disc drive.

You are advised to disconnect all hardware from your computer. Connect
the disc drive to the computer and place the disc in the drive. Enter
LOAD "", 8, 1 and press the RETURN key. The game takes a few seconds
to load.

SCENARIO

Free the imprisoned fairy folk before they are obliterated by an evil
Queen. She stoops to conquer the land Stormlord inhabits, destroying
the peaceful euphoria with each annihilation.

Stormlord's mission - free the captured and defend the peace and
tranquility of his realm. Unfortunately, he must repel the wicked
monarch, but should he fail, the evil Queen and her dark sovereignty
will reign forever...

PLAYING STORMLORD

The game objective is to release the impounded fairies before time
runs out. Each level of the game has a small number of fairies that
must be released before you can progress onto the next level.

Scattered about Stormlord's world are various objects that must be
used intelligently to free the fairies and help get through certain
parts of the world. To pick up an object or to swap an already held
object with one on the ground, simply walk into it. Only time and
practice will grace you with the knowledge of where to use certain
objects and in what order they should be used, etc.

You will encounter Venus fly traps, huge worms, flies, dragons and
many more foes on your travels. All of these must either be destroyed
or avoided at all costs.

To gain access to far and remote parts of the world, powerful
spring-boards can be used to cover large distances in a few
seconds. To use a spring-board, simply step onto the middle of it and
you will be propelled into the air.

END OF LEVEL SUB-GAME

When all the fairies have been released, Stormlord will take part in a
mini game in order to try and gain an extra life. The object of this
sub-game is to capture as many tears as possible within the allocated
time. An extra life is awarded when more than 10 tears have been
collected.

Instead of throwing thunder bolts and swords as normal, Stormlord will
now blow a limited number of kisses, represented by red hearts, at the
flying fairies. If a heart should touch a fairy, she will fall in
love, drop a tear for Stormlord to collect, and then fly away. But be
quick as the tears will dissolve into the ground quite soon after
landing.

CONTROL KEYS

The first five of the following keys can be redefined to suit personal
taste (or use joystick instead.)

O     Left
P     Right
Q     Jump - The longer it's held down the higher the jump
A     Crouch
SPACE Fire - The longer it's held down the further bolts go
             When held down for the maximum amount of time, a more
             powerful sword will be thrown instead (use these for
             larger foes on later levels.)

To pause the game or frame advance it, press CAPS SHIFT and SYMBOL
SHIFT simultaneously.

To abort the game, press Y, U, I, O and P simultaneously.

INFORMATION PANEL

From left to right the panel sections are as follows:

1) Lives left
2) Elapsed time represented by a sun that changes to a moon
3) Score
4) Currently held object (When blank nothing is held.)
5) 1st digit = fairies so far found.
   2nd digit = total amount of fairies to be found on the current
   level.

CREDITS

Designed and written by Rafaelle Cecco and Nick Jones.

Graphics by Hugh Binns.
Music by Dave Rogers (Spectrum and Amstrad) and The Maniacs of Noise
(C64).

Produced by Paul Chamberlain.

(c) Hewson Consultants 1989.

The program and data are copyright and may not be reproduced in part
or in total by any means without the written permission of Hewson
Consultants Ltd. All rights reserved. No responsibility is accepted
for any errors.

Our policy is one of constant improvement. Therefore, we reserve the
right to modify and product without notice.

Hewson Consultants Ltd                  [ Hewson logo ]
56B Milton Park
Milton
Abingdon
Oxon
