Ivan Ironman Stewart's Super Off Road Racer
===========================================

Grab the wheel and hit the nitros - the challenge of off-road
racing awaits you! Graftgolds quality conversion of the 
American arcade coin-op classic, Ivan 'Ironman' Stewart's
Super Off Road, contains all the thrills and spills of the
orginal.

Play against the computer, or join your friends in a race round
the eight tracks, collecting prize money and on-track bonuses.
Use your winnings to upgrade your vehicle - and remember to watch
out for the mud holes, jumps and other suspension-wrenching
obstacles in the race for fame and fortune.



Loading

Super Off-Road loads and runs automatically. Reset your machine, 
then follow the instructions for your computer.

Amiga and ST: Insert disk in drive A.

IBM PC and Compatibles: Insert disk in drive A, and type IRONMAN. 
To install on your hard disk, type INSTALL at the A:prompt. If 
the boss walks by, hit ALT B to pause and return to the DOS 
prompt - EXIT returns you to the game.

C64/I28: TAPE - insert cassette, hold down the SHIFT key and 
press RUN/STOP then press PLAY on the tape recorder ; 
DISK - insert disk in the drive, type LOAD "*",8,1 then press RETURN.

Amstrad CFC: 464 TAPE- Insert cassette, then press CTRL and the small 
ENTER key; 6128 TAPE - insert cassette, type ITAPE and press RETURN, 
then press CTRL and ENTER; DISK - insert disk, then type RUN"DISC and 
press ENTER.

Spectrum: +3 Insert disk and press ENTER; +2 and 128K - insert tape 
and press ENTER; 48K - insert tape, type LOAD"" and press ENTER.



CONTROLS

The Amstrad CPC and Spectrum versions can be played as one or two 
player games. All other versions can be played by up to three 
people simultaneously.


Amiga and ST

During the Attract mode, F1 turns both music and sound effects on, 
F2 turns music only on, F3 turns sound effects only on, F4 turns 
music and sound effects off, while F10 allows you to quit 
the options section.

Player 1, the red car, uses Joystick Port 1 
	Up - accelerate 
	Down - brake 
	Left - left 
	Right - right 
	Fire - Nitro

Player 2, the yellow car, uses Joystick Port 0
	Up - accelerate 
	Down - brake 
	Left - left 
	Right - right 
	Fire - Nitro

Player 3, the blue car, uses the keyboard
	/, LEFT SHIFT, SPACEBAR - accelerate 
	QWASZXUIJK M or , - left 
	ERDFCVOPL or ; - right 
	ALT or RIGHT SHIFT BUTTON - Nitro 
	Braking is automatic when the accelerate key is released

During play, HELP pauses the game and ESC aborts a paused game.


IBM PC and Compatibles

Super Off-Road supports the Adlib sound board, if is has been 
fitted to your PC and a games card is required if you want to 
take advantage of the three-player option - Player 2 uses 
a joystick.

Player 1, the red car, uses the keyboard 
	Q - accelerate 
	Z or X - left 
	C or V - right 
	A - Nitro

Player 2, the yellow car, uses Joystick Port 1 
	Up - accelerate 
	Left - left 
	Right - right 
	Fire - Nitro

Player 3, the blue car, uses the keyboard 
	] - accelerate 
	M or , - left 
	. or / - right 
	' - Nitro

During play, F1 pauses, F2 toggles the sound on or off, F1O 
aborts a paused game, ALT B accesses the Boss Screen, CTRL S 
saves the high score chart when it is being displayed and 
ESC exits to DOS. If the high score table already exists 
on disk then it will be saved automatically.


C64/C128

Player 1, the red car, uses Joystick Port 2 
	Up - accelerate 
	Down - brake 
	Left - left 
	Right - right 
	Fire - Nitro

Player 2, the yellow car, uses Joystick Port 1 
	Up - accelerate 
	Down - brake
	Left - left 
	Right - right 
	Fire - Nitro

Player 3, the blue car, uses the keyboard 
	: - accelerate 
	/ - brake 
	@ - left
	UpArrow - right 
	; - Nitro

During play, RUN/STOP pauses, and CLR/HOME aborts a paused game.


Spectrum

Player 1 and player 2 can chose whetherto use the joystick or 
keyboard. Sinclair, Cursor and Kempston interfaces are supported. 
Player 1's car has a white flag on its ariel. Player 2 has 
a black flag. 

	Joystick 
	Up - accelerate 
	Down - brake 
	Left - left 
	Right - right 
	Fire - Nitro

	Keyboard
	HJK or L - accelerate 
	BN or M - brake 
	Z or X left 
	C or V - right 
	SPACE - Nitro

During play, P pauses and Q quits a paused game.


Amstrad CPC

Player 1 (red car) and player 2 (white car) can chose whether 
to use the joystick or keyboard.

	Joystick 
	Up - accelerate 
	Down - brake 
	Left - left 
	Right - right 
	Fire - Nitro

	Keyboard 
	K - accelerate 
	M - brake 
	Z - left 
	X - right 
	SPACE Nitro

	OR

	, - accelerate 
	. brake 
	A - left 
	Z - right 
	SPACE - nitro

During play, P pauses and Q puits a paused game. 1 toggles 
the in-game music on/off.



Super Off-Road


Stadium Racing - The Off-Road Experience

Your aim is simple: to come out as the best off road driver in 
a series of stadium-based races. Four drivers, up to three of 
which can be played by the computer, compete over a series of 
eight tracks - and each track is raced both clockwise and 
anticlockwise, giving 16 race configurations.

Based on the American arcade game "Ivan 'Ironman' Stewart's 
Super Off-Road", this conversion is faithful to the original, 
so when you first load the game each player needs to input 
details that will be used later for the high score and race 
results screens. First, you need to identify yourself with 
a three-letter name - use the joystick or keyboard to move 
the cursor over the letters of the alphabet and click fire 
to add the selection to your name field.

Next, details of each driver's birth date are needed, according 
to the customs of competitive off-road racing. The date you input 
is displayed in the American style - with the month preceding 
the day's date.

Finally, you get the chance to pick a nationality for yourself - 
move the cursor around the screen and press fire when it is 
resting on the national flag of your choice.

Once all the players have completed the arcade set-up sequences, 
the real racing can begin.


Money, Laps and Lives

At the start of a new season, competitors begin on equal terms - 
no-one has any money in the bank, and everyone has three 'lives' 
in the form of Credits, which are worth $200,000 dollars. Money 
can be collected during races: bags of dollars appear on the track 
every so often; the first person to drive over a Bonus Bag collects 
the loot it contains. Similarly, containers of Nitro Fuel materialise 
on the track from time to time - collect them if you can - Nitros 
usually cost you $10,000 dollars each and can only be purchased 
before a race starts. The Bonus Nitros you collect during a race 
can be used immediately, if you want... And Prize money is also on 
offer, of course.

The moment one driver completes four laps, the current race ends 
and he is declared the winner. The other three drivers are then 
automatically ranked according to their positions when the race 
finished.

Coming first in a race earns you $100,000, 2nd place is worth $90,000, 
while third place adds $80,000 to your account. Even if your driving 
skills aren't that impressive, you still collect $70,000 for coming 
fourth. Watch out for the computer-controlled cars - each player who 
is beaten by one, loses a Credit.

Points are also awarded at the rate of one point for every $1,000 
dollars you win while racing, and are used on the High Score table 
at the end of a game to determine an overall ranking for the season's 
competition.

Everyone starts the game with three lives. Being beaten by one of 
the computer-controlled cars costs you one of your lives.

After each race, the Awards Screen appears and the position of each 
competing driver is shown, alongside readouts that show the cash won 
and the cash collected by picking up Bonus Bags on the track.


If you lose a credit with a credit remaining, a counter starts ticking 
down and you can opt to continue play by pressing fire before it reaches 
zero. If you allow the 'Continue Play?' counter to reach zero, then you 
are retired from the current game and have to leave the other drivers 
to chase victory.


Spending Money In The Speed Shop

The Speed Shop menu appears in between races and allows you to spend 
the cash you have accumulated on the track and by winning races. The 
display at the top shows how many lives you have (shown as 'credits'), 
and how much cash you have amassed.

Five useful items are on offer in the Speed Shop, all of which improve 
the performance of your vehicle. By glancing at the bar readouts in each 
panel, you can see how many of each of the five accessories has already 
been fitted to your vehicle.

To go shopping, move the cursor over the panel that shows the accessory 
you want to buy and press FIRE to make the purchase (if you try to buy 
an item you can't afford a credit is automatically traded in for 
$200,000).

When you've bought all you want, select the Next Race panel to move onto 
the track.


Nitro Fuel Units

Vou can have up to 99 of these - providing you have collected lots of 
cash or get really good at picking up the freebies during races. The lap 
counter panel that is displayed during a race shows how many Nitros each 
driver has in reserve.

During a race, pressing the FIRE button or Nitro Key uses a Nitro Unit if 
you have one - when you punch the Nitro in, you gain a short burst of 
amazing speed as the high-grade fuel is burned off.

Use Nitros at the start of a race to get ahead of the pack, and whenever 
you've got a bit of catching up to do!

Tires

You can buy up to five grades of 'Tire'. The higher grade you have, the 
better your vehicle's grip on the racetrack, the less likely you are to 
skid, and the vehicle's turn rate is improved.

Shocks

Up to five types of shock absorbers can be fitted to your vehicle - the 
more you have, the less bouncy the ride. The  improved contact of your 
wheels with the ground gives improved acceleration and cornering.

Acceleration

By careful race-tuning, your vehicle can be made to accelerate up to its 
top speed more quickly. You're limited to five Acceleration units - each 
one you buy increases performance.

Top Speed

This accessory boosts the top speed that your vehicle can reach without 
the aid of Nitro boosters. When you have fitted five Top Speed 
accessories and five Acceleration units, your truck can't travel 
faster without Nitros...



Learn From Ironman

Keep an eye on the stock of Nitros you have in your vehicle - the race 
readout that appears on screen shows how many laps each competitor has 
completed and how many Nitros they have in stock.

Use your Nitros wisely - to get ahead of the pack at the start of 
a race, or to make up for lost time. And buy plenty - by using Nitro 
boosts to best effect, it's possible - to triple your overall speed 
during a race.

Keep an eye out for the collectables - Bonus Bags stuffed with cash 
and Bonus Nitro Containers. The quantity of cash in the bags and the 
number of Nitros in the containers increases as a race progresses. 
If you're falling behind the field, it sometimes pays dividends to 
go for pickups rather than for the best position at the end of a race.

Drive intelligently! The more skilful you are at avoiding the on-track 
obstacles like ramps, mounds and watersplashes, the quicker you will 
be able to complete a lap.

Spend money! The number of dollars you earn or collect determines the 
number of points you are awarded on the High Score Screen, but there's 
no point in saving cash. Spend out when you get the chance to visit 
The Speed Shop...



Ivan Stewart - and why he's called 'Ironman'

Ivan Stewart, a Californian off-road race specialist, began his career 
as a competitor in off-road racing in 1971, piloting a Class 1 buggy. 
His career spans nearly 20 years, and Stewart has been a major 
contributor to the evolution of the sport in America where he has 
built up an impressive collection of wins.

What began as a hobby, rapidly grew into a profession as the sport of 
off-road racing became more popular. In 1983, Stewart joined the 
Toyota Factory Team and has represented the company ever since, 
driving an off-road truck in stadium short-course races as well as the 
long-distance events in which competitors drive for 250 miles non-stop 
through the deserts of Southwest USA and Mexico.

Ivan Stewart gained his nickname 'Ironman' as a result of competing 
in these marathon treks through the desert. It takes a certain kind 
of driver to put up with the relentless pounding that your body takes 
inside the cab of a truck racing through the desert - and a certain 
kind of physique to withstand the discomfort of a 250-mile trek 
through hot and hostile terrain.

From the start of his career, Stewart's capacity for endurance was 
recognised by his fellow competitors. Each time he won a Baja 500 or 
Baja 1OOO race, held in the heat of Mexico, Stewart received an 
'Ironman' award. Mickey Thompson, the man behind the Off-Road 
Championship Gran Prix Series began referring to Ivan Stewart as 
'The Ironman of Off-Road Racing' after he picked up the Drivers' 
Points Championship in two successive years.

While the tag has been shortened a bit, the title 'Ironman' has 
stuck. Today, Ivan 'Ironman' Stewart is a well-known sporting 
personality in America - known not just for his wins, but for his 
association with the sport and the Toyota factory team.

And after a 20-year career behind the wheel, Ironman is still 
pushing back the boundaries of off-road achievement. Last year, 
he secured an overall win in the Mint 400 race in Las Vegas - the 
first time in the 22-year history of the event that a pickup truck 
captured the award.

Little wonder then, that the American arcade specialists Leland 
sought Ironman's assistance and endorsement when they set out to 
produce a game that captured the thrills of off-road racing. And now 
you can enjoy Ivan 'Ironman' Stewart's Super Off-Road on your home 
computer.

But will you end up deserving the accolade: 'Ironman'?



Technical Information - The Coin-op

Screens 	8, each with its own character set of 1K characters 
		and a track layout of 4K.

Memory 		4 Megabytes.

Processor 	Z80 main board with a custom graphics board driven 
		by a second Z80.

Graphics 	418 car animation frames. About 40 other sprites.


Technical Information - The Computer Game.

Screens 	8, as per arcade machine. 

Memory 		Varies per computer. Single load on all 8 bit 
		formats. 

Processor 	Varies per computer.

Graphics 	Car animation frames 
		Spectrum	- 112
		Amstrad 	- 48 
		Amiga		- 416
		C64		- 80
		Atari ST 	- 416 
		PC		- 416
		Other sprites vary per computer.



Credits

Ivan Stewart	- Himself

Andy Green	- Project Co-ordinator
Andrew Wright	- Product Manager
Terry Tester	- Tester
Ian Mathias	- Executive Tester

Illustration by Words and Pictures

Packaging Design by Khartomb

Converted by Graftgold Ltd.

Steve Turner	- Team Leader, Spectrum and CPC versions
Gary J Foreman	- Amiga and Atari ST versions
David O'Connor	- PC versions 
Jason Page	- C64 version, music and sound on all versions
John Cumming	- Graphics 
John Lilley 	- Amstrad graphics
Michael Field	- Additional graphic support
Andrew Braybrook - Technical advisor
Domonic Robinson - Second technical advisor

Arcade original by The Leland™ Corporation

THIS PROGRAM IS PROTECTED UNDER UK COPYRIGHT LAW AND MAY NOT BE
COPIED, HIRED OR REPRODUCED, OR OTHERWISE MODIFIED WITHOUT THE 
CONSENT OF THE COPYRIGHT OWNER.

WARNING

IT IS A CRIMINAL OFFENCE TO SELL, HIRE, OFFER OR EXPOSE FOR SALE,
OR HIRE OR OTHERWISE DISTRIBUTE INFRINGING (ILLEGAL) COPIES OF 
THIS COMPUTER PROGRAM AND PERSONS FOUND DOING SO WILL BE PROSECUTED.

ANY INFORMATION ON PIRACY SHOULD BE PASSED TO: THE FEDERATION AGAINST 
SOFTWARE THEFT 071-240-6756
