TERRORMOLINOS!
Melbourne House

	When chubby-cheeked Cliff Richard first sang
"We're all going on a summer holiday" it's unlikely
that he was referring to the Costa Brava resort of
Terrormolinos, because Terrormolinos is the kind of
place you only visit once.

	Could you survive a two-week package holiday
there, with wife Beryl and kids Doreen and Ken?
Among the many perils, you risk being gored by a
bull, buried up to your neck in sand, being poisoned,
dying of heatstroke, losing an argument with a shark
and being run over by a Euro-juggernaut.

	The object of the game is not merely to survive the
holiday, but to take ten snapshots to prove you did it.


DEATH AND PHOTOGRAPHY

TERRORMOLINOS! features a unique use of
graphics. In most adventures the graphics serve just
to illustrate the locations. In TERRORMOLINOS!
however the graphics appear either when you make
a fatal error, or when you take a successful
photograph.

	The graphics were created using a special process
called Saucivision, patented by the authors. The
system enables the essence of saucy seaside post-
cards to be transferred to the computer screen.


MOVING OFF

When the program is fully loaded the message
WELCOME TO TERRORMOLINOS! will appear,
followed by some initial instructions.
	As the game begins you are not in Spain but at
home in Slough. Beryl has booked a taxi to take you
all to the airport. The taxi is now on its way and could
arrive at any minute!
	Since you have typically left all the packing until
the last minute, you must quickly scoot around the
house collecting everything you will need to take on
holiday. In particular, don't forget your passport,
tickets, camera and suitcase. They are all some-
where in the house, and there are other things to be
found, too, which you will also need.


BASICS
To move around, use the normal compass directions
N,S,E,W,NE,SE,NW,SW. You can also sometimes go
up (U) or down (D). When using a stepladder,
remember to specify UP STEPS or DOWN STEPS.
	Apart from movements, most of your commands
will be in the form of VERB NOUN. You will often
want to pick things up or put them down, e.g. GET
SNORKEL or DROP HANKY. If you want to look at
something more closely, EXAMINE SETTEE,
EXAMINE STEPS, or whatever.
	Members of the family, and also certain other
characters you will meet later, can sometimes be
summoned if you CALL them.
	Other useful commands are SCORE, which
speaks for itself; I for Inventory, i.e. what you are
carrying and wearing; R for Re-describe, in case
you've forgotten where you are and what objects are
visible; QUIT, when you've done enough holiday-
making for one day; and SAVE GAME/LOAD GAME,
to enable you to save the adventure up to the point
you've reached and resume later. Check your
computer manual for instructions.


HAPPY SNAPS
Don't forget that your primary task, apart from
keeping the family together, is to take those ten
photographs. You must use your judgement as to
where and when these are to be taken. Your film will
have only 12 exposures, so there can be only two
duds.
	When you take a correct photo, it will develop
itself on screen while you watch! If you take a dud, all
you will get is a sarcastic message. Make sure you
don't take the same photo twice! Finally, you will
have to make special arrangements for locations
where there isn't much light.
	Another unique feature of TERRORMOLINOS! is
the review facility, which enables you to examine
each snap you have managed to take. Just press any
key to bring up the next photo. You can even do this
after making a fatal error in the game.
	You can also see on the screen during the game
how many correct snaps you have taken.


EXCURSIONS
One of the joys of going on holiday is sitting in a
clapped-out bus and being jolted down a hundred
miles of cart track on your way to visit some site of
interest. TERRORMOLINOS! boasts three such
excursions. We suggest you go on all of them - after
all, some of the best snaps are taken on sightseeing
trips.


SCORING
It is possible to complete the adventure with a score
of less than 100%: the extra points come from the
other various activities you can engage in - which
you will have to discover for yourself!


WANDERING OFF
Be prepared for members of the family - and others -
wandering off. You must retrieve them when they do
this, otherwise who knows what could happen?


IN TERRORMOLINOS
On arrival, check immediately into your hotel. Only
then can you really start to "enjoy" your holiday.
	Some Spanish phrases may come in useful from
time to time; HOLA means "Hello", SI means "Yes",
NO means "No". If you want a room, ask for UNA
HABITACION. That should do!
	You may also be asked such questions as QUE
QUIRE USTED? ("What do you want?") and HAY EN
EL GRUPO KWIKHOL TOURS? ("Are you with the
Kwikhol Tours party?")


SOME USEFUL VERBS
GET	ADD	FIT	REMOVE	WIPE
TAKE	SWIM	RUB	RING	LEAVE
OPEN	EAT	ORDER	APPLY	KILL
JUMP	DROP	CALL	KNOT	HIRE
EXAMINE	READ	CLIMB	ENTER	GO
WAVE	WEAR	LOCK	FIRE	BOARD
LOAD

Peter Jones & Trevor Lever - Game concept and storyline
Mike Robinson - Graphics and cover illustration
Roger Taylor & James Byrne - Programming
(c) Lever/Jones 1985

