================
The Untouchables
================
Document created by rstuart@ukonline.co.uk for
World of Spectrum: http://www.worldofspectrum.org/


Les Incorruptibles
------------------

TAKE ON THE MOB

The ultimate six exciting action sequences put you in control of Elliot Ness's
elite squad of crime-busters.

Alleyway shootouts, The Border Raid, The Railway Station confrontation and
Warehouse bust culminating in the thrilling denouement of a rooftop duel as you
re-live the knife edge existence of Ness in his struggle against the retribution
of Capone!

THE UNTOUCHABLES - LIVE AN AMERICAN LEGEND


The Untouchables
----------------

THRILLING ACTION ON THE STREETS OF CHICAGO

Scenario

Original and diverse arcade-style sections put you in control of Elliot Ness's
elite squad of crime busters. The Warehouse Bust, the Border Raid, The Alleyway
Shootouts, The Railway Station Confrontation and the final Rooftop Duel enable
you to re-live the knife-edge existence of Elliot Ness as you crusade through
1920's Chicago in search of Capone's retribution.

Take on the Mob as you lead the Untouchables on their most exciting and
difficult mission! With six levels of explosive action and a thrilling
denouement.

THE UNTOUCHABLES...LIVE AN AMERICAN LEGEND


SPECTRUM LOADING

CASSETTE

1. Place the cassette in your recorder ensuring that it is fully rewound.

2. Ensure that the MIC socket is disconnected and that the volume and tone
   controls are set to the appropriate levels.

3. If the computer is a Spectrum 48K or Spectrum+ then load as follows:
   Type LOAD"" (ENTER). (Note there is no space between the quotes). The
   " is obtained by pressing the SYMBOL SHIFT and P keys simultaneously.

4. Press PLAY on your recorder and the game will load automatically. If you
   have any problems try adjusting the volume and tone controls and
   consulting Chapter 6 of the Spectrum manual.

5. If the computer is a Spectrum 128K then follow the loading instructions
   on-screen or in the accompanying manual.

48K: The game loads in 5 sections. Once a section has been loaded, you remain
on this level until it has been completed.

Then follow on screen instructions to progress onto the next level.

128K: The first three levels load in one part then follow on screen instructions
for further levels as required.

SPECTRUM +3 DISK

Set up system and switch on as described in your instruction manual. Insert disk
and press ENTER to choose 'LOADER' option. This program will then load
automatically. Please ensure disk is in drive throughout game - follow on screen
instructions.


Controls
--------

The game may be controlled by either keyboard or joystick.

This is a one player game only.

Preset Keys:

Q       - UP
A       - DOWN
O       - LEFT
P       - RIGHT
SPACE   - FIRE
H       - PAUSE GAME

(Pressing H while game is paused will abort the game.)

THE JOYSTICK AND KEYS CAN BE RE-DEFINED FROM THE MENU PAGE.

Joystick:
                UP
                |
                |
LEFT -----------+----------- RIGHT
                |
                |
               DOWN


Status and Scoring
------------------

PANEL DISPLAYS FROM LEFT TO RIGHT:

LEVEL 1
Score, Time remaining, Evidence Collected, Energy, Extra weaponry and direction
indicator on top right of screen.

LEVEL 2
Score, time remaining, sight, energy level and below this a liquor seized
indicator.

LEVEL 3
Score, time remaining, shotgun gauge, energy-level and liquor seized indicator.

LEVEL 4
Score, Ness's energy and baby energy.

LEVEL 5
Score, Time, Stone's energy and Accountant's energy.

LEVEL 6
Score, Time and Energy.

Your score is increased by shooting gangsters.

Big bonuses are obtained for completing a level.

Your energy level is depicted by caricatures of the Untouchables. The more you
see of Capone the weaker The Untouchables.


Gameplay
--------

SECTION 1 - THE WAREHOUSE

You find out that Capone's thugs are working in a derelict warehouse,
bootlegging liquor. You bust in on them in an attempt to break up their
operation. However, this surprise attack yields a few bonuses, as some of
Capone's bookkeepers are present, and you must take the opportunity of capturing
them in order to gather preliminary evidence of his activities. An arrow will
guide you to the evidence when it is present in the building. You may also pick
up extra ammunition and extra energy.

SECTION 2

Acting on information gained from the warehouse raid, you attempt to thwart an
illegal liquor run at the U.S./Canadian border. Armed with a Tommy Gun you and
your men must find the liquor by avoiding Capone's henchmen and collect it by
shooting the barrels until they explode.

Untouchables may be changed by going to the far left or far right of the play
area and shooting the bottom right corner of the character icon that appears on
screen.

SECTION 3 - THE ALLEYS

Getting a tip-off from one of the men at the border, you head for the train
station where Capone's accountant is trying to leave the country. You must get
to him (and the evidence) before the train leaves.

Capone's mob hear of your intentions and will try anything to thwart the
Untouchables mission. As you progress through the streets of Chicago, on your
way to the Train Station, you are confronted by ambushes at every turn. You must
eliminate all of your attackers before you can safely reach the station.

Characters can be changed only when in a defensive position against the wall,
and by moving to the character icon and shooting the bottom right of it.

SECTION 4 - THE TRAIN STATION

As Ness awaits the arrival of the accountant, he helps a woman lift her baby in
a pram up the stairs of the railway station. Before he reaches the top Capone's
accountant arrives with an armed escort and opens fire. He lets go of the pram
and starts to fire back.

You must guide the pram to the bottom of the concourse avoiding enemy fire and
any obstructions. You must also avoid shooting at any innocent bystanders as you
try to destroy Capone's men. You may replenish your energy by running over
medical packs.

SECTION 5 - THE HOSTAGE

Realizing he is the last one left in the Station, one of Capone's henchmen takes
the accountant hostage at gunpoint and threatens to shoot him in ten seconds if
you do not lay down your arms. You must shoot him within that time, scoring a
perfect fatal hit, if you are to succeed.

SECTION 6 - THE ROOFTOP

With the evidence all collected, Capone is in court for the trial. His head
Hitman, Frank Nitty, is still at large however, and you must chase him across
the court rooftop and avenge Malone's death. This is the final and bloody
shootout which, if successful, will result in Nitty falling to his death.


Hints And Tips
--------------

Learn map layouts for increased manoeuvrability.

Try not to hang around too long on any level.

Certain members of the Untouchables must remain alive for specific sections -
The Movie may give you a clue.

Learn how the mobsters act, to devise suitable tactics against them.

Switch between your Untouchables quickly if one is low on energy as they regain
power when inactive.


The Untouchables
----------------

Its program code is the copyright of Ocean Software Limited and may not be
reproduced, stored, hired or broadcast in any form whatsoever without the
permission of Ocean Software Limited. All rights reserved worldwide.

THIS SOFTWARE PRODUCT HAS BEEN CAREFULLY DEVELOPED AND MANUFACTURED TO THE
HIGHEST QUALITY STANDARDS. PLEASE READ CAREFULLY THE INSTRUCTIONS FOR LOADING.

If for any reason you have difficulty in running the program and believe that
the product is defective, please return it to:
Mr Yates, Ocean Software Limited, 6 Central Street, Manchester M2 5NS.

Our quality control department will test the product and supply an immediate
replacement if we find a fault. If we cannot find a fault the product will be
returned to you at no charge. Please note that this does not affect your
statutory rights.


Credits
-------

TM and ｩ 1989 PARAMOUNT PICTURES. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
PROGRAMMING BY JAMES HIGGINS
GRAPHICS BY MARTIN MCDONALD
MUSIC BY JOHNATHAN DUNN
PRODUCED BY JON WOODS
ｩ 1989 OCEAN SOFTWARE LTD.
