                                   LAST NINJA 2

Rarely does a company make as dramatic an impact as did SYSTEM 3 SOFTWARE with
the award winning game 'THE LAST NINJA'. This software innovation proved to be a
major advance in home computer entertainment - achieving critical acclaim from
the media and game players around the world.

System 3 Software has established a reputation for developing innovative and
exciting software. Our aim is to provide the games player with hours of
thrilling entertainment, through challenging and imaginative game play, plus the
most sophisticated player-interaction available in this type of game. And now
with over 8,000 man hours invested in planning and development, from the team
that brought you 'The Last Ninja', we are pleased to present to you 'LAST NINJA
II'.

LAST NINJA II is the second game in our interactive action fantasy genre. It
features adventure style puzzles, dynamic on-screen action and a high degree of
player control.

Because we are always conscious of your demands for ever better products, we
have incorporated many of your suggestions in this game. For example: playing
against the clock and having a score to relate your performance to.

To get the most enjoyment out of this game, we suggest you read ALL the
instructions (and story) thoroughly. This is not just a simple action game.

Later in this booklet we give you some hints to get you started.

We hope you enjoy our latest game, and look forward to entertaining you again in
the near future.

Mark Cale


The Ninja, known as The Mystic Shadow Warriors, were the elite fighting force of
Ninth Century Feudal Japan. They were dedicated to the fine tuning of their
bodies into killing machines. Their attributes were many and varied; they were
masters of weapon craft, assassination, stealth and invisibility and many
believed them to be in control of the supernatural. A real master of the art of
Ninjutsu could even anticipate an opponent's moves...and thoughts.

To achieve this high level of skill all initiates had to undergo years of
rigorous training. Correct application of these skills required cunning,
dexterity and total mind control. Students of the Ninja arts drove themselves on
to try to achieve the state of self-perfection and a closeness to their god.
Therefore martial arts fighting disciplines became the highest, most honourable
path to perfection. Unfortunately, some Ninja were to abuse their powers.

The Ninja were nearly wiped out of existence during a purge in the Twelfth
Century. But now they are back and more powerful than ever...Back with a
vengeance!

The struggle with the Evil Shogun, Kunitoki, had taken its toll. For many months
after regaining control over the island of Lin Fen, Armakuni, the new master of
the Ninjutsu, fell into a deep depression at the loss of his brethren. He
reflected again and again upon his struggle against Kunitoki, and always came to
the same conclusion - it was only the end of a battle, not the end of the war.

After more than a year of languishing upon Lin Fen, Armakuni was prepared to
reinstate the way of the Shadow Warrior to its former glory. With the Koga
scrolls in his possession all that Armakuni needed now were the disciples to
follow his guidance and the teachings of the ancient manuscripts.

As the word spread around the mainland that a new master had the scrolls and was
about to begin training, the men began to arrive. They were the sons of the
fighting elite - the Samurai.

A new order of Ninja slowly began to take shape. But this time the training was
going to be more intense than ever before. Never again would they be caught off
guard and be defeated without honour.

During a training session of the Inner Circle - the Master's elite of the elite
- a strange feeling came over the class. It was as if time had abruptly stood
still, as if they were the only people left in the world. As Armakuni rose from
his meditating position a strange pulsating light enshrouded him. Concerned with
what they saw, the class tried to rise and go to Armakuni's assistance; but they
were fixed in their positions, no one could move.

The intensity of the light grew around Armakuni until all who were witnessing
the scene were forced to cover their eyes. When the light faded and finally
disappeared, the students leapt to their feet. What had happened? Where was the
master?

"What is happening?" shouted Armakuni. But no one could hear him. It was as if
he was invisible and in a sound proof glass box. Why wasn't his class rushing to
his aid to help him break free? Why did he feel the sharp thorns of fear, while
inside he was as calm as the deep seas? What game were the ancients playing with
him? His questions found no answers as he slipped unwillingly into
unconsciousness.

Slowly Armakuni clawed his way back through the darkness of deep sleep, back to
where he felt safe. As he forced his eyes open, he was greeted by a sight that
his experiences could not have prepared him for.

Armakuni is now standing on a hard wooden floor surrounded by strange objects
that vaguely remind him of musical instruments. Behind him is a curtain parted
slightly in the middle. As he tries to focus his eyes on his surroundings his
mind is sent spinning. He sees strange gigantic shapes, covered with mirrors,
reaching to the very doorstep of the heavens.

"Where am I?" shouts Armakuni. Trying to get some control over his rushing
emotions he calls upon all of his reserves of courage. He must try to make sense
of the insanity surrounding him. Taking a moment to meditate, Armakuni suddenly
experiences a strange and chilling sensation. There is a force in this land, a
force he has not felt since the final battle with the Evil Shogun, Kunitoki.

"Could he be here? Has some cruel trick of fate brought the two of us together
once again?" thinks Armakuni. As these thoughts rush through his mind, Armakuni
begins to realise that their destinies must be forever intertwined and wherever
evil forces try to hold sway over mankind, Armakuni is the one chosen to
vanquish it.

Armakuni's immediate concern is to explore his surroundings. He must find some
means of defending himself against the unknown dangers that lie before him.
Although Armakuni was torn from his own time with nothing more than the clothes
on his back, he has total belief in his abilities.


LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

Set up your computer as detailed in your user manual. Ensure that all non
essential peripherals - such as cartridges, printers, etc. are disconnected.
Failure to do so may cause loading difficulties.

If you are using your ZX Spectrum, Spectrum+, Spectrum 48K, Spectrum 128K,
Spectrum +2 with the cassette version of LAST NINJA II...

Connect your cassette player to your Spectrum as advised in the user manual.

If you are using a joystick then insert the necessary interfaces NOW.

Switch your TV/monitor, cassette player and computer ON. If your Spectrum now
displays a menu screen you may select 48K or 128K Basic.

Insert the LAST NINJA II cassette into the cassette player, with the cassette
label marked side one facing upwards. Ensure that the cassette is fully rewound.

Type LOAD"" and then hit the ENTER key. Now press the PLAY button on your
cassette player. The game should now load.

Refer to the multi-load instruction section of this Avengers' Handbook.


MULTI-LOAD INSTRUCTIONS

LAST NINJA II is a multi-load game. Each level will be loaded as you complete
the previous one. This means that to enjoy continuous play you MUST keep your
LAST NINJA II cassette in your data cassette player, or your LAST NINJA II disk
in your disk drive, at all times during a session with the game. On screen
prompts will appear when you complete a level, telling you what to do next.

When loading cassette versions of the game you will be prompted to turn over the
tape, rewind fully and load the next level.


KEYBOARD CONTROLS

FOR SPECTRUM AND AMSTRAD OWNERS

Enter/Shift     - Cycle through Ninja's inventory.
Space Bar       - Cycle through Ninja's weapons.
P               - Pick up object.
Q               - Kill the Ninja.
H               - Pause game.
J               - Select joystick orientation. Pressing the J key will rotate
                  the joystick's positions through 45 degrees each time you
                  press it.
                  Select the positions you feel most comfortable to play with. 3
                  modes: mode 2 is normal. This mode applies to the movement of
                  the Ninja, not the fighting manoeuvres.

This game can only be played with a joystick. For Spectrum owners you should
plug the joystick into a standard interface.

It is important to understand that, unlike most fighting games, the Ninja
character is capable of movement in three dimensions. This means that all the
moves you can make are relative to the direction the Ninja is facing on the
screen.


BASIC MOVEMENT

To change the direction the Ninja is facing, roll the joystick handle through
all the positions until you are facing the direction you want.

Commodore, Spectrum and Amstrad owners all use the same joystick positions.

To walk forward - push the joystick in the direction the Ninja is facing.

To step backwards - pull the joystick in the opposite direction to the one the
Ninja is facing.

To drift across the path - push the joystick in the direction you want him to
veer (this applies to walking forwards and backwards).


SPECIAL MOVEMENTS

Collecting items

FOR SPECTRUM AND AMSTRAD OWNERS

To activate the pick up, press 'P' on the keyboard, or pull the joystick to
bottom left with the button held down. To pick up an item from the pathway or
the background you first have to position the Ninja correctly. The Ninja must be
facing the object you want to collect and be close enough so that when he bends
down, his hands will be touching the object. Once the Ninja's hands have touched
the object it will be automatically picked up and displayed in the status area.
It is then added to the Ninja's inventory.


SOMERSAULTING

COMMODORE, SPECTRUM AND AMSTRAD OWNERS

All use the same joystick positions.

To make the Ninja somersault, either to avoid attack or to overcome some hazard,
such as jumping from one wall to another, you should make the Ninja run in the
direction you want him to somersault, and while he is moving press the fire
button. Because the Ninja can move in three dimensions, he will jump along the
path or across the path depending on which direction you push the joystick:
diagonal up - across and up the path, sideways - across the path horizontally
(the Ninja can only somersault forwards).


FIGHTING MOVEMENTS

The following is a list of all the moves, both unarmed and armed, that the Ninja
can carry out. To activate the fighting moves the Ninja should be stationary and
the fire button should be pressed.

FOR SPECTRUM AND AMSTRAD OWNERS

Unarmed moves:
Kick          -     left, or up-left
Punch         -     up, up-right or right
Duck          -     down-right
Pick          -     down-left

Armed moves (sword, nunchakus and staff):
High Stab     -     up, up-left
Stab          -     right, up-right
Slash         -     left
Kick          -     down
Pick          -     down-left
Duck          -     down-right

Throwing moves (shiraken, etc.):

Throw         -     up


GENERAL TIPS

The first aspects of the game you should master are the joystick controls. The
highly interactive nature of the game is required because of some of the complex
moves the Ninja character has to perform. A high level of competence at the
controls will enhance your game play considerably.

Because of the adventure elements our second suggestion is that you should get
into the habit of recording what happens on each screen. This will enable you to
obtain higher scores with repeated play.

The last point is, never take anything for granted - some things are not as they
appear. Be curious, nosey, etc. and examine everything.


CLUES

The following are clues to some of the objects and hazards you may come across
in your travels. They are listed in the 'load' order, not necessarily the order
in which you have to find them. In the spirit of all good adventures...we have
not told you the whole story.

KEYS:                There are grate keys and not so grate keys. In the
                     beginning they are a hard bunch to find.

TRAP DOOR:           Get a good grip and punch your way through this problem.

MAP:                 This map is a bit flash, it can reveal a lot.

NUNCHAKUS:           Pulling off this two part problem could make you flushed
                     with success.

SHURIKEN:            You'll have to box clever to reach the stars.

STAFF:               Reaching new heights, these staff will do well.

BOTTLE:              Wino(t) tramp around the streets and grab a drink while you
                     can.

SWORD:               Shop around for the best buy, it could be a real steel.

HAMBURGER:           (quote) 'Greater love hath no man than this, that he lay
                     down his extra hamburger for a friend'.

CREDIT CARD:         You'll get extended credit when you gain access. It will
                     really lift your spirits.

COMPUTER TERMINAL:   Your number's up if you don't act like an elephant.

THE FINAL PROBLEM IS ALWAYS IN THE PICTURE, SAFELY


The game is played in a variety of environments. The following are a few cryptic
clues as to the sort of places you will be visiting.

LOAD ONE: CENTRAL PARK

The key to success is to gain new heights then go for a frolic on the river.

LOAD TWO: DOWNTOWN MANHATTAN

The busy streets can be paved with danger. Stepping out before your time could
really flip you out. If you're really sophisticated, you can get down to it and
make a grate exit.

LOAD THREE: SEWERS

Typically deep, dark and dank. There'll be no torch carrying here, you'll just
need lotsa bottle.

LOAD FOUR: OPIUM FACTORY

Meat a real cool cat, but be careful, you might get a shock along the way. Tread
carefully before taking a quick dip.

LOAD FIVE: OFFICE BLOCK

Entrance here is no big secret. You could become a real terminal case before you
get to meet your biggest fan and become star struck.

LOAD SIX: SHOGUN'S RETREAT

Drop in to see your arch enemy. If you're dumb enough it might not be too
alarming. After that it's full steam ahead. Careful, if you get cornered you
might have to do a six point turn.
