THE NEVERENDING STORY
OCEAN
SPECTRUM 128K

"A BOY WHO NEEDS A FRIEND FINDS A WORLD THAT NEEDS A HERO"
The Story
---------
The computer game follows the main theme of the film and is set in 
"Fantasia", a world of the imagination facing extinction by the "All 
consuming Nothing", eroding its very fabric and condemning it to oblivion. 
It is in desperate need of a hero from the "Real World", someone to believe 
in it and thus renew its life.

That someone is a small boy, Bastian Balthazar Bux, who discovers a dusty 
old book on the shelves of an antique bookshop. The title is "The 
Neverending Story" and it chronicles the ever changing fortunes of the 
people of "Fantasia".

Bastian takes the book and blowing the dust from its jacket reveals the 
front cover depicting "Auryn" the silver and gold medallion symbolizing the
strength of "Fantasia". On reaching school he avoids his teachers, climbs 
into an abandoned attic and setting himself down on an old rug begins to 
read the compelling tale.

The many peoples of "Fantasia" are gathered to seek audience with their 
Empress, but are dismayed to find her ill and weak. "Cairon", the physician
gives them encouragement, telling of a hero, a small boy from the plains by
the name of Atreyu - the only person who can find the saviour of 
"Fantasia". In the game you take the part of Atreyu and only through your 
endeavours will the kingdom be restored to its former glory!

The main characters that you will encounter are listed below and you must 
judge whether they will help you or hinder your quest.

The Three Travellers -
Rockbiter, Teenyweeny and Nighthob, these three friends are on their way to
the Ivory Tower, home of the Empress, to see her.

Gmork the Werewolf -
The main servant of the "Nothing". He will use all his powers to catch the 
one person who can stop his master from destroying "Fantasia" - so don't 
dawdle.

The Empress -
The eternal, ever youthful, ruler of Fantasia. She lives at the very top of
the Ivory Tower.

Morla - The Ancient One -
The oldest inhabitant, Morla is an enormous earth covered tortoise who 
lives in the "Swamps of Sadness".

The Gnomes -
Engywook and Urgll, live in the Southern Lands.

Falkor -
The Luckdragon, a huge white dragon who will lend assistance to anyone who
carries Auryn.

Artax -
The faithful steed of Atreyu.

The Game
--------
"The Neverending Story" is a graphic text adventure with illustrations for 
some locations, some "Events" and all objects. Experienced Adventurers may 
not wish to read the following explanation but for all others it will 
enhance the understanding and enjoyment of the game.

If you haven't played an adventure game before, don't be put off, it's not 
difficult and will give hours of enjoyment. You are embarking on a voyage 
of discovery with problems to solve, obstacles to avoid, characters to meet
and an ultimate goal (in this case to save Fantasia from the "Nothing"). 

The computer will describe to you, in words, your current location, the 
characters and any objects that are there. Once you have decided what to do
(in this game you take the role of the hero, Atreyu) you instruct the 
computer by typing in your request in a limited form of English. The format
of the words that the computer understands is explained later in "The 
language", but it has been deliberately kept simple to allow more room for 
game data. If the computer can understand what you have typed it will 
perform the required action and describe the results to you.

The game is split into three parts which must be played in order, you 
cannot begin Part II until you have completed Part I and so on. The three 
sections are divided up by storyline and any objects that you are carrying
when you finish a part will be retained for possible use in the next one.It
is important to remember this if you come across an object, but can find no
use for it in the current part.

The use of graphics in this game is quite different to some adventure 
games. Firstly every object has a small illustration; up to five can be 
carried at one time and they will be displayed at the top right-hand of the
screen. If at any time, you have a companion with you (either Falkor or 
Artax) then their picture will appear at the bottom of the object display 
area. Larger illustrations for locations or depicting events appear in the 
top left of the screen and approximately one third of these are of the 
"Event" type. It should be noted that none of the graphics are designed to 
replace the text but to enhance it!

                   ------------------------------------
                   -         (BACKGROUND SCENE)       -
		   -                                  -
                   -               ^            ^     -
                   -               |  COMPANION |     -
                   -               |            |     -
                   -         OBJECTS YOU ARE CARRYING -
                   ------------------------------------
                   -                                  -
                   -                                  -
                   -          (MAIN TEXT AREA)        -
                   -                                  -
                   -                                  -
                   -                                  -
                   ------------------------------------

The Language
------------
You control Atreyu by instructing the computer in a restricted form of 
plain English, however there are a few simple rules to bear in mind:-

(i) Every instruction must have a verb. Some of the "verbs" that the 
computer understands are not strictly English verbs, so it is helpful if 
you regard a "verb" as a word which causes an action.

(ii) Some "verbs" need a "noun" to operate on - e.g. GET AURYN "Get" is the 
verb and "Auryn" is the noun.

(iii) The program will pick out the words it "understands" from a 
sentence and if it finds a word that isn't in its vocabulary, the computer
will tell you what it is.

(iv) If you wish to type in more than one sentence at a time you can 
separate them with the word "and" e.g. Get the apple "and" go East.

(v) You need only type the first three letters of a word for it to be 
understood.

The following is a list of "Verbs" (Action Words) which the computer will
understand.

Acceptable "Verbs"

GO		NORTH		NORTHEAST	EAST
SOUTHEAST	SOUTH		SOUTHWEST	WEST
NORTWEST	UP		DOWN		DROP
ATTACK		LIGHT		ENTER		IN
PULL		LOOK		GET		TAKE
INVENTORY	EAT		FLY		CLIMB
BLOW		RIDE		SMASH		HIT
OUT		READ		REMOVE		LOCK
OPEN		CUT		UNLOCK		SAY
CLOSE		TIE		FASTEN

Special Verbs

WAIT - Use if you want to just let time pass.

PAUSE - To pause the game, if you leave the game unattended without doing 
this "Time" will still continue.

SAVE - To save the current state of play.

LOAD - To restore a saved game.

QUIT - To end the game in progress.

We wish you many hours of enjoyment with "The Neverending Story".

Here are the most commonly used words to get you started.

Look (or L) To look around. This redisplays the description of the current 
location (it is done automatically if you move to a new location).

North (or N)
North East (or NE)
East (E)
South East (or SE)
South (or S)
South West (or SW)
West (or W)
North West (or NW)

These are movement verbs that are used most often. You can type just the 
direction or place the word "Go" in front, (it makes no difference). Of 
course the program will only let you move in a specified direction if it is
possible.

Get/Drop - For picking up or dropping an object.

Inventory - This instruction displays in text format a list of the objects 
that you are carrying. (You can also see this on the objects illustration 
display).

Time
----
If you spend too long contemplating your next move (and the game is not on 
pause), then "Time" will pass and anything which you have typed in will be 
acted on.

General Advice
--------------
(i) Draw a map - Unless you have an unusually good memory it will be 
enormously helpful to chart your progress.

(ii) Everything you come across in the Adventure will have a use - you only
have to find out what it is!

				GOOD LUCK

Loading
-------
Insert the game tape into your tape deck, select Tape Loader from the main
menu on the Spectrum 128 (for further instructions consult the section on
loading in your manual), and press play on the tape deck. The game will now
load automatically. When it has finished loading the credits page will 
appear and the theme tune will begin to play. Press space to enter the game
properly.

The computer will now ask you wheter you want to restore an old game or 
not. If you do then press the "Y" key and then follow the procedure for 
loading as below. If you wish to start a new game then press "N".

Saving/Loading a Game:
Insert the tape you wish to use into the tape deck and then follow the on-
screen instruction.


THE NEVERENDING STORY

The program code, graphic representation and artwork are the copyright of
Ocean Software Limited and may not be reproduced, stored, hired or 
broadcast in any form whatsoever without the written permission of Ocean 
Software Limited. All rights reserved worldwide.


The Neverending Story
(C) Neue Constantin Filmproduktion GmbH 1984.
Licensed to Ocean Software Limited by 
Licencing Corporation of America (U.K.).
Game design and programming by Ian Weatherburn.
(C) 1985 Ocean Software Limited.
Produced by Jon Woods