THE SECRET DIARY OF ADRIAN MOLE AGED 13 3/4

Level 9 / Mosaic, 1985

Inlay text:

INTRODUCTION

Playing this game will take you through a year in the life of Adrian Mole.
When you have loaded the first part of the game, you will see that as you
progress through the days in Adrian's diary you will be asked to make choices
for Adrian. Press a number from 1 to 3 to choose one of the options suggested.
Pressing key number 4 will display the command and help system menu. This gives
a list of the additional features in the game and full instructions on how
to use them.

THE GAME

Adrian is a worrier. The problems of existence hit him hard. Spots, bits of
him that won't keep still, the cracks in his parents' marriage, all prey
heavily on his mind. There are some consolations. A fourteen-year-old
feminist, an eighty-nine-year-old chain smoker and his spoilt best friend
all help to lift the gloomy introspection of Mole's moods. Mole believes he
is an intellectual. He is dogged by ill-health as well as by an infuriatingly
ever-present pet dog, and by a catalogue of misfortunes familiar to everyone
over the age of thirteen.

The aim of the game is to make Adrian as popular as possible with everyone -
family, friends, and the dog! At regular points in the game your score will
appear on the screen to indicate how well you are doing. (You can aim to make
Adrian as unpopular as possible and see how low a score you can achieve!)

The results of your actions may not immediately abvious. It won't necessarily
pay to overdo things: for example, being too neat and tidy might arouse his
mother's guilt feelings.

There are a number of random elements in the game and your course through the
troubled path of adolescence may vary every time you play.

If you have already read Sue Townsend's books 'The Secret Diary of Adrian Mole
Aged 13 3/4' and 'The Growing Pains of Adrian Mole', you will find some
characters you have met before and a number of familiar scenes. But, if you
haven't yet read the books, you'll still be able to play the game - and knowing
the books won't necessarily give you an advantage: in the game, familiar scenes
may well have a new twist.

USING THE PROGRAM

The game consists of a number of separate programs. Each program covers a few
months of Adrian's life. When playing the game, press SHIFT to continue when
the game pauses.

LOADING THE GAME

To load and start the game, type LOAD "" and start the tape.

When you reach the end of one part of the game, a message on the screen will
ask you if you want to go on to the next program. Type YES and press ENTER.
Start the tape playing again and press ENTER twice. The next program loads
in the same way as the first one.
