                          The Addams Family
                          -----------------

SCENARIO
--------

Creepy, Kooky, Ooky, Spooky.

The Addams Family has been imprisoned!

Only  Gomez  can save  the day  by freeing his  wife Morticia, his son
Pugsley,  his daughter  Wednesday, Granny,  Lurch and  Thing. He  must
search  the Addams Family Mansion, grounds and subterranean vaults and
rescue  them one  by one.  Strange creatures  and crazy  monsters lurk
around  every  corner and  in every  crevice with  only one thought in
mind,  "Stop Gomez!"  Only his innate agility will aid him as he leaps
and bounds around the Mansion.


Loading
-------

SPECTRUM CASSETTE 128K ONLY

Place  the cassette in the recorder ensuring that it is fully rewound.
Select  LOADER  option  and  press  RETURN key.  Press  PLAY  on  your
recorder - the game will now load automatically.


AMSTRAD CASSETTE 128K ONLY

CPC 6128

Connect  a  suitable cassette tape  recorder ensuring that the correct
leads  are attached  as defined in the User Instruction Booklet. Place
the  rewound tape  in the cassette recorder and type | TAPE then press
the  ENTER/RETURN key.  Then type RUN" and press the ENTER/RETURN key.
Follow the on-screen instructions.

DISK

Insert the program disk into the drive with the A side facing upwards.
Type  | DISC  and press  the ENTER/RETURN  key to  make sure  that the
machine   can   access  the   drive.  Now   type  RUN"DISC  and  press
ENTER/RETURN, the game will load automatically.


COMMODORE CASSETTE

Position  the cassette in you Commodore recorder with the printed side
upwards  and  make sure  that it  is rewound  to the beginning. Ensure
that  all  the leads  are  connected.  Press  the  SHIFT key  and  the
RUN/STOP  key  simultaneously.  Follow the  on-screen  instructions  -
PRESS  PLAY  ON TAPE.  This program will  then load automatically. For
C128 loading type GO 64 (RETURN), then follow C64 instruction.

PLEASE  NOTE: This  game loads in a number of parts - follow on-screen
instructions.

DISK

Select  64 mode  (if using  Commodore 128).  Turn on  the disk  drive,
insert the program into the drive with the label facing upwards.

Type LOAD "*",8,1 (RETURN) the introductory screen will appear and the
program will then load automatically.


Controls
--------

SPECTRUM/AMSTRAD

This is a one player game controlled by joystick and keyboard which is
fully redefinable.

PRESET KEYS

O          MOVE LEFT
P          MOVE RIGHT
SPACE      JUMP/SWIM
Q          GO THROUGH BACKGROUND DOOR
A          GO THROUGH FOREGROUND DOOR
R          PAUSE GAME

To keep afloat under water hold down the Jump/Swim key.


C64

This is a one player game controlled by joystick only.

P          PAUSE GAME
RESTORE    ABORT GAME


Status and Scoring
------------------

The status panel displays from left to right:-

Hostages:         Displays members of the Addams Family who still have
(Spectrum only)   to be rescued.

Stamina:          Displays six hearts which shrink in size with time.
                  These can be replenished by collecting hearts.
                  When all the hearts have gone Gomez loses a life.

Lives:            Displays the number of lives Gomez has remaining.

Score:            Displays current score.

Keys:             Each time Gomez collects one of the six different
                  coloured keys it will be displayed here.


SCORING

Points  are awarded  for each character destroyed and each time a key,
heart or extra life icon is collected.


Gameplay
--------

To  rescue the six members of the Addams Family Gomez must explore the
house,  its  grounds and  finally the  subterranean labyrinth which is
overrun   by  a   variety   of  ghouls,   monsters  and   supernatural
manifestations.  Some  of these can be  destroyed by jumping on top of
them but others are to be avoided as they are invulnerable and contact
other than by a well aimed stamping means trouble for Gomez!

To explore the house and its surroundings fully, Gomez will need to go
through  the doors that  are behind and in front of him. To go forward
Gomez  must  stand behind  a foreground  doorway and  press "A", to go
backward he must stand in front of a background doorway and press "Q".
(C64 push joystick up or down respectively).

Some  of the doorways are blocked by coloured locked doors and to open
them  Gomez  must find the same  coloured key. Once a coloured key has
been collected all doors of that colour will be opened.

Scattered throughout the game are many useful items such as extra life
trophies, stamina hearts and keys.  To find and release the members of
his family Gomez will need to find the location of many of these.

Once  Gomez  has located a family  member they will set him a survival
test to prove that he is not an imposter.

When  all six  members of the family have been rescued and their tests
completed they will all be able to return to their abnormal lives!


Hints and Tips
--------------

1.  If a ledge seems out of reach try jumping from the head of a
    creature below it.
    
2.  Don't try rushing through an area of evil creatures as their
    tortuous movement may take some thought to overcome.

3.  Try not to collect stamina hearts unless you really need them -
    you may need them later.
    




THE ADDAMS FAMILY

Its  program  code is the copyright  of Ocean Software Limited and may
not  be reproduced,  stored, hired or broadcast in any form whatsoever
without  the written  permission of Ocean Software Limited. All rights
are reserved worldwide.

THIS SOFTWARE PRODUCT HAS BEEN CAREFULLY DEVELOPED AND MANUFACTURED TO
THE  HIGHEST  QUALITY  STANDARDS.  PLEASE READ  THE  INSTRUCTIONS  FOR
LOADING, CAREFULLY.

This game has been tested and checked for viruses.

Please  do not use  any form of disc utility with any Ocean product as
it may corrupt the data and render the disc unusable.


CREDITS

The  Addams  Family &  ｩ1991 Paramount  Pictures. All Rights Reserved.
The Addams  Family logo  is a trademark  of Paramount Pictures.  Ocean
Software Limited authorized user.

Programming by Andrew Deakin
Graphics and Design by Ivan Horn
Music by Jonathan Dunn
C64 Conversion by Twilight
Produced by Jon Woods
ｩ1992 Ocean Software Limited.
