===============
Trivial Pursuit
===============
Document produced by rstuart@ukonline.co.uk on 17th Oct 1999 for
World of Spectrum: http://www.void.demon.nl/spectrum.html

---------------
Trivial Pursuit
---------------
"What mighty contests rise from trivial things." Alexander Pope

Here at last - the world's most fashionable Board Game officially comes
alive on your computer. You have in your hands the result of many months
co-operation between the originators of Trivial Pursuit and a team of young,
highly qualified programmers based at Oxford University.

What makes the computer version of Trivial Pursuit so special?

* Sound and music questions - can you name THAT tune? - played backwards!
* Graphical questions to puzzle and ponder over.
* Text questions (many linked to graphics and music) to tase and amuse you.
* The Dice is thrown and all possible moves flash automatically.
* Over 3,000 questions and "Uniload (TM)" additional question packs available.
* Play Trivial Pursuit on your own or with your friends!

What it retains is the pure good fun of pursuing trivia that the whole family
(Mum and Dad included!) enjoy enormously.

* What is Desperate Dan's favourite food?
* Do frozen peas float?
* What is Triskaidekaphobia?
* Which members of the Royal Family can vote?
* How many golf balls are there on the moon?

Do you know the answers to these questions? If not - who cares? It's all part
of Trivial Pursuit!

ISBN 1-85160-039-6
(C) 1983 Horn Abbot International
Programmed by Oxford Digital Enterprises
Domark Limited, Tel:01-947 5624

-------------------------------------------------------
Trivial Pursuit (TM) - The Computer Game - Instructions
-------------------------------------------------------

Introduction
------------
The computer game version of Trivial Pursuit is a faithful reproduction of
the origional board game But with many enhancements and features to make
it even more fun to play. The rules for playing Trivial Pursuit are outlined
below for those who have never played the board game, followed by an
explanation of the way the computer game works. Clearly, if you are
familiar with Trivial Pursuit, the latter is the important section for you.
In any event, the program has been designed to be as friendly as possible
and is largely self-explanatory. So, follow the loading instructions and
prepare yourself for Trivial Pursuit coming alive on your computer.

Object of the Game
------------------
The winner is the plyer who first returns to the central hub and correctly
answer a question in a category chosen by the other players. Before
attempting a game winning question, a player must land in each of the six
cetegory headquaters and correctly answer a quesion.

How to play Trivial Pursuit
---------------------------
The order of play is determined by the order of names typed in before
starting the game.
     Players "throw the dart" to choose random numbers (this replaces the
use of dice) and starting from the central hub they move their token to
whichever spaces are highlighted on the board. (You will notice that the
subject categories below are highlighted in accordance with the colour code
to help you choose the preferred square). When the token lands on a square,
the player is then asked a question in that particular category.
     If the player answers correctly their turn continues. If the answer is
wrong the turn moves to the next person in the list.
     When the player is in a category headquaters (at the end of the spoke)
and answers correctly they are given the appropriately coloured scoring
"wedge" which is entered in the playing "token".
     If the player lands on the grey "throw again" spaces, then a further
throw is given.
     If a token lands on the hub before it's full of wedges, then the player
may choose any category of question. This is done by moving the joystick
and highlighting the subject below.
     Once a player has their token full of six wedges, they make their way
towards the central hub, and must land exactly on the hub. Once there, the
other players choose the category of question to be answered, and to win,
this question must be answered correctly.

Start of Play
-------------
The first thing to do is type in each players name, you have 1-6 players. Now
press ENTER/RETURN without entering a name and the "Highlight" will move to
"New Game" on the menu. At this point you have a number of options. You can
edit names (If you've made a mistake or someone joins, leaves or wishes to
continue the game), set a time allowance for answering questions (between 5
seconds and 9 minutes), and decide whether or not to include "TP" (the little
chap who is the Question Master) within the game. Sound effects can be turned
on and off (this won't affect music questions), you can load automatically a
new block of questions and importantly, check the performance of each player
on the source screen. These can be chosen by moving the highlight bar up or
down and then pressing the fire button.
     Once you have decided on your options simply highlight the "New Game"
choice on the menu and press fire to end the game.
     You will find yourself on the board screen with TP (if he is awake)
waiting for you. From here onwards movement through the game is controlled
by the joystick or keys. To move on in the game you have only to press the
button. At several points in the game you are asked to make choices. Just
move the joystick or press the keys in the required direction and press
fire to continue.
     REMEMBER: If nothing appears to be happening just press fire to continue
to the next stage.

Questions
---------
Whether "TP" asks you a text, music or graphics question there is no need to
type in the answer. Simply say your answer out loud and press the fire button
to see if you were correct. Just as in the board game, it is up to all the
players to decide whether the answer is near enough.

Main Menu Screen
----------------
ENTER NAMES: This choice calls up a sub-menu (see below).
CONTINUE GAME: If you have stopped the game for any reason this choice allows
     you to carry on from where you left off.
START GAME: Starts the game from the beginning (a sub-menu gives you the
     option to cancel this if you change your mind).
TIMER: This sets how long you have to answer a question. It may be from 5
     seconds to 9 minutes. If set to off you may take as long as you like!
TP IS AWAKE/ASLEEP: Would you like to give TP a chance to catch up on his
     beauty sleep? Use this choice to send him to bed!!
SOUND FX ON/OFF: For playing late at night (this does not affect the music
     questions).
LOAD QUESTIONS: Use this when you have exhausted the questions in memory
     to give you more puzzles. You will be asked to start the tape.
SCORE CHART: Find out how you and your friends are doing!

Player Menu Screen
------------------
NEW PLAYER: Did somebody arrive late and wants to join in? You can add them
     to the game easily using this option.
PLAYER QUIT: If Dad has to be at work early and has to leave the game you can
     cut him out with this choice.
PLAYER PAUSE: Use this if Mum wants to make a cup of tea and your friend
     can't take the excitement and wants to rest for a short while!
PLAYER RETURN: Bring the paused players back into the game.
EXIT: Leaves the menu.

The Board
---------
REPRESENTATION OF PLAYING TOKEN: On each players turn this will show which
     of the scoring wedges they have already won.
THE PLAYING TOKEN: This shows the position of the player on the board. Only
     the current players token is shown.
THE HUB: The aim of all the players!
STATUS BOARD: You can see how everyone is getting on from the board. The
     colours correspond to the colours on the name list.
T.P.: The star of the show!!
CATEGORY HEADQUATERS: Get a question right when your token is on one of these
     and you get the appropriately coloured wedge.

The Score Chart
---------------
GRAPHICAL REPRESENTATION OF ANSWERS: The green area shows the number of
     correct answers. The red area shows those answered incorrectly.
SCORE: This shows how many questions you have right compared to how many you
     have been asked.

The Question Screen
-------------------
THE QUESTION WINDOW: Gives you questions and useful messages (except CBM).
GRAPHICAL QUESTIONS SCREEN
HOW LONG HAVE YOU BEEN PLAYING? (Shown on clock)
TIMING CANDLE: Shows how long you have left to answer the question. (Set by
     the option on the menu screen).

Loading Instructions (Spectrum cassette tape version)
-----------------------------------------------------
Inside your pack you will find two tapes. One marked "Genus (TM) Edition"
and the other marked "Question Pack" (this contains the questions only).
     Insert the rewound "Genus (TM) Edition" tape into your cassette
recorder, and follow the instructions below:

Spectrum 48K: Type LOAD "" press ENTER key, then start tape. IMPORTANT: To
     make the music questions clearer take out the cassette once it has
     loaded, connect the "EAR" lead to the "RECORD" socket on your tape
     player. Press "RECORD + PLAY" and turn up the volume. (Note: this may
     not work with every tape recorder)
Spectrum 128K: Choose 48K option from main menu then follow 48K instructions.

When the program has finished loading, the game will contain the first block
of questions.
     The Question Tapes contain a number of question blocks, which you load
as reqired once each new block has exhausted its question data. Follow the
instructions on screen as they appear. These tapes contain over 3,000
questions in all, but further question tapes will be available.

For those without a joystick
----------------------------
Spectrum 48/128K - Q=Up, A=Down, O=Left, P=Right, Space=Fire

Question Hints
--------------
When the question contained in the main program are used up you can use
new questions from the "Uniload (TM) Questions Pack" on tape/disk. Follow
the screen instructions for loading a new block of questions.
     As you play, note the tape counter number at the start of each block,
for future use.
     If "Loading Error" appears on your screen rewind the "Uniload (TM)
Question Pack" to the start of the block and press "Play".

Special Feature
---------------
One feature of the computer game that does not appear in the board game is
the Score Chart. Before throwing a dart you can return to the option menu
and by choosing "Score Chart" you can find out how you are doing. Are you
answering more questions than your friend? Is he or she better at sport
questions than you? All this is worked out and shown to you by the computer.
     When it gets to the point that one of the players has arrived at the
center hub you can, by pressing the option key, see their analysis chart
and pick their worst subject for them to answer!
     But don't forget that they can do the same for you!

One Player Mode
---------------
If you enter only one name into the list at the beginning you are
automatically in the one player mode. You must answer the questions as
quickly as you can (no cheating now, TP wil be watching you!) and try to
complete the game. The computer will time you and keep a record of your
answers. At the end you will be given a score based on your performance.
     We have left it up to you whether or not you are entirely truthful while
playing the game but remember, cheats never prosper!!!!

Future Trivial Pursuit editions
-------------------------------
We hope this game will keep you amused for many hours.

Coming soon: YOUNG PLAYERS (TM) EDITION
             BABY BOOMER (TM) EDITION
             GENUS II (TM) EDITION

TRIVIAL PURSUIT is a Trade Mark owned and liscenced by Horn Abbot
International Ltd.
Published by Domark Limited, 204 Worple Road, London SW20 8PN.
The software program remains the copyright of Domark Ltd.
Trivial Pursuit was programmed by Oxford Digital Enterprises.
