Vectron 3D (c) 1988 Firebird Software - Complete Documentation
--------------------------------------------------------------

Tearing down the corridors of a totally unknown dimension you wonder "Is
this it?..."

Screaming towards electronic killing machines of immeasurable power you
believe that your time has come...

Zapping with your U.D. Cannon and flicking on you shields you question "Can
you survive?..."

Within the subspatial dimensions of your computer, you discover what it is
like to be part of a computer game itself. Your only tools are the U.D.
Cannon, the shields and a map which you use to studt the maze, locate the
exit, and most importantly, calculatr which corners the hostile killing
machines are lurking behind. You destroy a hovering droid, and then drop
your sights immediately toblast a ground based tank.

At the centre of the matrix you find and destroy the Rom Robot and prepare
to make your escape, but your map has been destroyed in the battle. You let
your wits, and adrenaline lead you.

Even if luck is with you, and you find the exit, you will be pursued across
the outer dimension of the matrix by every fighting machine that the
computer can conjure up. Your cannon is now a tool of defence as well as
attack, dematerialising icoming missiles before they dematerialise you.

LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

SPECTRUM  Type LOAD""
          Press the ENTER key.
          Press the PLAY button on your recorder.            

COMMODORE Cassette
          Hold down SHIFT key and press the RUN/STOP key.
          Press the PLAY button on your recorder.
 
          DISC
          Type LOAD"*",8,1
          Press RETURN

AMSTRAD   Cassette
          CPC 6128, 644 and CPC 464 with disc.
          Hold down SHIFT and press the @ key.
          Enter TAPE and press RETURN
          Now follow the following CPC 464 cassette loading instructions.

          CPC 464 Cassette Loading
          Hold down CTRL and press the small ENTER key.
          PRESS the PLAY button on your recorder.

          Disc
          Enter RUN"DISC"
          Press RETURN

Instructions typed in by Paul Thompson, March 2003
